---
layout: publication
title: Do As I Can Not As I Say Grounding Language In Robotic Affordances
authors: Michael Ahn, Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Yevgen Chebotar, Omar Cortes, Byron David, Chelsea Finn, Chuyuan Fu, Keerthana Gopalakrishnan, Karol Hausman, Alex Herzog, Daniel Ho, Jasmine Hsu, Julian Ibarz, Brian Ichter, Alex Irpan, Eric Jang, Rosario Jauregui Ruano, Kyle Jeffrey, Sally Jesmonth, Nikhil J Joshi, Ryan Julian, Dmitry Kalashnikov, Yuheng Kuang, Kuang-huei Lee, Sergey Levine, Yao Lu, Linda Luu, Carolina Parada, Peter Pastor, Jornell Quiambao, Kanishka Rao, Jarek Rettinghouse, Diego Reyes, Pierre Sermanet, Nicolas Sievers, Clayton Tan, Alexander Toshev, Vincent Vanhoucke, Fei Xia, Ted Xiao, Peng Xu, Sichun Xu, Mengyuan Yan, Andy Zeng
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2022
bibkey: ahn2022do
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/http://arxiv.org/abs/2204.01691v2"}
  - {name: "Code", url: "https://say&#45;can.github.io/"}
tags: ['Agentic', 'Has Code', 'RAG', 'Reinforcement Learning']
---
Large language models can encode a wealth of semantic knowledge about the world. Such knowledge could be extremely useful to robots aiming to act upon high45;level temporally extended instructions expressed in natural language. However a significant weakness of language models is that they lack real45;world experience which makes it difficult to leverage them for decision making within a given embodiment. For example asking a language model to describe how to clean a spill might result in a reasonable narrative but it may not be applicable to a particular agent such as a robot that needs to perform this task in a particular environment. We propose to provide real45;world grounding by means of pretrained skills which are used to constrain the model to propose natural language actions that are both feasible and contextually appropriate. The robot can act as the language models hands and eyes while the language model supplies high45;level semantic knowledge about the task. We show how low45;level skills can be combined with large language models so that the language model provides high45;level knowledge about the procedures for performing complex and temporally45;extended instructions while value functions associated with these skills provide the grounding necessary to connect this knowledge to a particular physical environment. We evaluate our method on a number of real45;world robotic tasks where we show the need for real45;world grounding and that this approach is capable of completing long45;horizon abstract natural language instructions on a mobile manipulator. The projects website and the video can be found at https://say&#45;can.github.io/.
