---
layout: publication
title: 'Reverse Engineering Human Preferences With Reinforcement Learning'
authors: Lisa Alazraki, Tan Yi-chern, Jon Ander Campos, Maximilian Mozes, Marek Rei, Max Bartolo
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2025
bibkey: alazraki2025reverse
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.15795'}
tags: ['Agentic', 'Security', 'Training Techniques', 'Applications', 'Tools', 'Reinforcement Learning']
---
The capabilities of Large Language Models (LLMs) are routinely evaluated by other LLMs trained to predict human preferences. This framework--known as LLM-as-a-judge--is highly scalable and relatively low cost. However, it is also vulnerable to malicious exploitation, as LLM responses can be tuned to overfit the preferences of the judge. Previous work shows that the answers generated by a candidate-LLM can be edited post hoc to maximise the score assigned to them by a judge-LLM. In this study, we adopt a different approach and use the signal provided by judge-LLMs as a reward to adversarially tune models that generate text preambles designed to boost downstream performance. We find that frozen LLMs pipelined with these models attain higher LLM-evaluation scores than existing frameworks. Crucially, unlike other frameworks which intervene directly on the model's response, our method is virtually undetectable. We also demonstrate that the effectiveness of the tuned preamble generator transfers when the candidate-LLM and the judge-LLM are replaced with models that are not used during training. These findings raise important questions about the design of more reliable LLM-as-a-judge evaluation settings. They also demonstrate that human preferences can be reverse engineered effectively, by pipelining LLMs to optimise upstream preambles via reinforcement learning--an approach that could find future applications in diverse tasks and domains beyond adversarial attacks.
