---
layout: publication
title: RAG Vs Fine45;tuning Pipelines Tradeoffs And A Case Study On Agriculture
authors: Balaguer Angels, Benara Vinamra, Cunha Renato Luiz De Freitas, Filho Roberto De M. Estevão, Hendry Todd, Holstein Daniel, Marsman Jennifer, Mecklenburg Nick, Malvar Sara, Nunes Leonardo O., Padilha Rafael, Sharp Morris, Silva Bruno, Sharma Swati, Aski Vijay, Chandra Ranveer
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: balaguer2024rag
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2401.08406"}
tags: ['Applications', 'GPT', 'Model Architecture', 'Prompting', 'RAG']
---
There are two common ways in which developers are incorporating proprietary and domain45;specific data when building applications of Large Language Models (LLMs) Retrieval45;Augmented Generation (RAG) and Fine45;Tuning. RAG augments the prompt with the external data while fine45;Tuning incorporates the additional knowledge into the model itself. However the pros and cons of both approaches are not well understood. In this paper we propose a pipeline for fine45;tuning and RAG and present the tradeoffs of both for multiple popular LLMs including Llama245;13B GPT45;3.5 and GPT45;4. Our pipeline consists of multiple stages including extracting information from PDFs generating questions and answers using them for fine45;tuning and leveraging GPT45;4 for evaluating the results. We propose metrics to assess the performance of different stages of the RAG and fine45;Tuning pipeline. We conduct an in45;depth study on an agricultural dataset. Agriculture as an industry has not seen much penetration of AI and we study a potentially disruptive application 45; what if we could provide location45;specific insights to a farmer Our results show the effectiveness of our dataset generation pipeline in capturing geographic45;specific knowledge and the quantitative and qualitative benefits of RAG and fine45;tuning. We see an accuracy increase of over 6 p.p. when fine45;tuning the model and this is cumulative with RAG which increases accuracy by 5 p.p. further. In one particular experiment we also demonstrate that the fine45;tuned model leverages information from across geographies to answer specific questions increasing answer similarity from 4737; to 7237;. Overall the results point to how systems built using LLMs can be adapted to respond and incorporate knowledge across a dimension that is critical for a specific industry paving the way for further applications of LLMs in other industrial domains.
