---
layout: publication
title: 'Potential And Perils Of Large Language Models As Judges Of Unstructured Textual Data'
authors: Rewina Bedemariam, Natalie Perez, Sreyoshi Bhaduri, Satya Kapoor, Alex Gil, Elizabeth Conjar, Ikkei Itoku, David Theil, Aman Chadha, Naumaan Nayyar
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2025
bibkey: bedemariam2025potential
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.08167'}
tags: ['Tools', 'Applications', 'Survey Paper']
---
Rapid advancements in large language models have unlocked remarkable
capabilities when it comes to processing and summarizing unstructured text
data. This has implications for the analysis of rich, open-ended datasets, such
as survey responses, where LLMs hold the promise of efficiently distilling key
themes and sentiments. However, as organizations increasingly turn to these
powerful AI systems to make sense of textual feedback, a critical question
arises, can we trust LLMs to accurately represent the perspectives contained
within these text based datasets? While LLMs excel at generating human-like
summaries, there is a risk that their outputs may inadvertently diverge from
the true substance of the original responses. Discrepancies between the
LLM-generated outputs and the actual themes present in the data could lead to
flawed decision-making, with far-reaching consequences for organizations. This
research investigates the effectiveness of LLM-as-judge models to evaluate the
thematic alignment of summaries generated by other LLMs. We utilized an
Anthropic Claude model to generate thematic summaries from open-ended survey
responses, with Amazon's Titan Express, Nova Pro, and Meta's Llama serving as
judges. This LLM-as-judge approach was compared to human evaluations using
Cohen's kappa, Spearman's rho, and Krippendorff's alpha, validating a scalable
alternative to traditional human centric evaluation methods. Our findings
reveal that while LLM-as-judge offer a scalable solution comparable to human
raters, humans may still excel at detecting subtle, context-specific nuances.
Our research contributes to the growing body of knowledge on AI assisted text
analysis. Further, we provide recommendations for future research, emphasizing
the need for careful consideration when generalizing LLM-as-judge models across
various contexts and use cases.
