---
layout: publication
title: Generation Distillation And Evaluation Of Motivational Interviewing45;style Reflections With A Foundational Language Model
authors: Brown Andrew, Zhu Jiading, Abdelwahab Mohamed, Dong Alec, Wang Cindy, Rose Jonathan
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: brown2024distillation
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.01051"}
tags: ['Applications', 'Distillation', 'Efficiency And Optimization', 'GPT', 'Model Architecture', 'Prompting', 'RAG', 'Survey Paper', 'Tools']
---
Large Foundational Language Models are capable of performing many tasks at a high level but are difficult to deploy in many applications because of their size and proprietary ownership. Many will be motivated to distill specific capabilities of foundational models into smaller models that can be owned and controlled. In the development of a therapeutic chatbot we wish to distill a capability known as reflective listening in which a therapist produces reflections of client speech. These reflections either restate what a client has said or connect what was said to a relevant observation idea or guess that encourages and guides the client to continue contemplation. In this paper we present a method for distilling the generation of reflections from a Foundational Language Model (GPT45;4) into smaller models. We first show that GPT45;4 using zero45;shot prompting can generate reflections at near 10037; success rate superior to all previous methods. Using reflections generated by GPT45;4 we fine45;tune different sizes of the GPT45;2 family. The GPT45;245;small model achieves 8337; success on a hold45;out test set and the GPT45;2 XL achieves 9037; success. We also show that GPT45;4 can help in the labor45;intensive task of evaluating the quality of the distilled models using it as a zero45;shot classifier. Using triple45;human review as a guide the classifier achieves a Cohen45;Kappa of 0.66 a substantial inter45;rater reliability figure.
