---
layout: publication
title: Pangea Procedural Artificial Narrative Using Generative AI For Turn-based Video Games
authors: Buongiorno Steph, Klinkert Lawrence Jake, Chawla Tanishq, Zhuang Zixin, Clark Corey
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: buongiorno2024pangea
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.19721"}
tags: ['Applications', 'Ethics And Bias', 'GPT', 'Model Architecture', 'Prompting', 'RAG', 'Reinforcement Learning']
---
This research introduces Procedural Artificial Narrative using Generative AI (PANGeA) a structured approach for leveraging large language models (LLMs) guided by a game designers high-level criteria to generate narrative content for turn-based role-playing video games (RPGs). Distinct from prior applications of LLMs used for video game design PANGeA innovates by not only generating game level data (which includes but is not limited to setting key items and non-playable characters (NPCs)) but by also fostering dynamic free-form interactions between the player and the environment that align with the procedural game narrative. The NPCs generated by PANGeA are personality-biased and express traits from the Big 5 Personality Model in their generated responses. PANGeA addresses challenges behind ingesting free-form text input which can prompt LLM responses beyond the scope of the game narrative. A novel validation system that uses the LLMs intelligence evaluates text input and aligns generated responses with the unfolding narrative. Making these interactions possible PANGeA is supported by a server that hosts a custom memory system that supplies context for augmenting generated responses thus aligning them with the procedural narrative. For its broad application the server has a REST interface enabling any game engine to integrate directly with PANGeA as well as an LLM interface adaptable with local or private LLMs. PANGeAs ability to foster dynamic narrative generation by aligning responses with the procedural narrative is demonstrated through an empirical study and ablation test of two versions of a demo game. These are a custom browser-based GPT and a Unity demo. As the results show PANGeA holds potential to assist game designers in using LLMs to generate narrative-consistent content even when provided varied and unpredictable free-form text input.
