---
layout: publication
title: 'Pangea: Procedural Artificial Narrative Using Generative AI For Turn-based Video Games'
authors: Steph Buongiorno, Lawrence Jake Klinkert, Tanishq Chawla, Zixin Zhuang, Corey Clark
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: buongiorno2024procedural
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.19721"}
tags: ['GPT', 'Applications', 'Ethics and Bias', 'RAG', 'Model Architecture', 'Reinforcement Learning', 'Prompting']
---
This research introduces Procedural Artificial Narrative using Generative AI
(PANGeA), a structured approach for leveraging large language models (LLMs),
guided by a game designer's high-level criteria, to generate narrative content
for turn-based role-playing video games (RPGs). Distinct from prior
applications of LLMs used for video game design, PANGeA innovates by not only
generating game level data (which includes, but is not limited to, setting, key
items, and non-playable characters (NPCs)), but by also fostering dynamic,
free-form interactions between the player and the environment that align with
the procedural game narrative. The NPCs generated by PANGeA are
personality-biased and express traits from the Big 5 Personality Model in their
generated responses. PANGeA addresses challenges behind ingesting free-form
text input, which can prompt LLM responses beyond the scope of the game
narrative. A novel validation system that uses the LLM's intelligence evaluates
text input and aligns generated responses with the unfolding narrative. Making
these interactions possible, PANGeA is supported by a server that hosts a
custom memory system that supplies context for augmenting generated responses
thus aligning them with the procedural narrative. For its broad application,
the server has a REST interface enabling any game engine to integrate directly
with PANGeA, as well as an LLM interface adaptable with local or private LLMs.
PANGeA's ability to foster dynamic narrative generation by aligning responses
with the procedural narrative is demonstrated through an empirical study and
ablation test of two versions of a demo game. These are, a custom,
browser-based GPT and a Unity demo. As the results show, PANGeA holds potential
to assist game designers in using LLMs to generate narrative-consistent content
even when provided varied and unpredictable, free-form text input.
