---
layout: publication
title: 'Truthlens:a Training-free Paradigm For Deepfake Detection'
authors: Ritabrata Chakraborty, Rajatsubhra Chakraborty, Ali Khaleghi Rahimian, Thomas Macdougall
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2025
bibkey: chakraborty2025training
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.15342"}
tags: ['Multimodal Models', 'Training Techniques', 'Model Architecture', 'Tools', 'GPT', 'Ethics and Bias', 'Interpretability', 'Interpretability and Explainability']
---
The proliferation of synthetic images generated by advanced AI models poses
significant challenges in identifying and understanding manipulated visual
content. Current fake image detection methods predominantly rely on binary
classification models that focus on accuracy while often neglecting
interpretability, leaving users without clear insights into why an image is
deemed real or fake. To bridge this gap, we introduce TruthLens, a novel
training-free framework that reimagines deepfake detection as a visual
question-answering (VQA) task. TruthLens utilizes state-of-the-art large
vision-language models (LVLMs) to observe and describe visual artifacts and
combines this with the reasoning capabilities of large language models (LLMs)
like GPT-4 to analyze and aggregate evidence into informed decisions. By
adopting a multimodal approach, TruthLens seamlessly integrates visual and
semantic reasoning to not only classify images as real or fake but also provide
interpretable explanations for its decisions. This transparency enhances trust
and provides valuable insights into the artifacts that signal synthetic
content. Extensive evaluations demonstrate that TruthLens outperforms
conventional methods, achieving high accuracy on challenging datasets while
maintaining a strong emphasis on explainability. By reframing deepfake
detection as a reasoning-driven process, TruthLens establishes a new paradigm
in combating synthetic media, combining cutting-edge performance with
interpretability to address the growing threats of visual disinformation.
