---
layout: publication
title: 'A Framework For Collaborating A Large Language Model Tool In Brainstorming For Triggering Creative Thoughts'
authors: Hung-fu Chang, Tong Li
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: chang2024framework
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.11877'}
tags: ['GPT', 'Tools', 'Model Architecture', 'Prompting', 'Reinforcement Learning']
---
Creativity involves not only generating new ideas from scratch but also
redefining existing concepts and synthesizing previous insights. Among various
techniques developed to foster creative thinking, brainstorming is widely used.
With recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs), tools like ChatGPT
have significantly impacted various fields by using prompts to facilitate
complex tasks. While current research primarily focuses on generating accurate
responses, there is a need to explore how prompt engineering can enhance
creativity, particularly in brainstorming. Therefore, this study addresses this
gap by proposing a framework called GPS, which employs goals, prompts, and
strategies to guide designers to systematically work with an LLM tool for
improving the creativity of ideas generated during brainstorming. Additionally,
we adapted the Torrance Tests of Creative Thinking (TTCT) for measuring the
creativity of the ideas generated by AI. Our framework, tested through a design
example and a case study, demonstrates its effectiveness in stimulating
creativity and its seamless LLM tool integration into design practices. The
results indicate that our framework can benefit brainstorming sessions with LLM
tools, enhancing both the creativity and usefulness of generated ideas.
