---
layout: publication
title: 'Blip3-o: A Family Of Fully Open Unified Multimodal Models-architecture, Training And Dataset'
authors: Jiuhai Chen, Zhiyang Xu, Xichen Pan, Yushi Hu, Can Qin, Tom Goldstein, Lifu Huang, Tianyi Zhou, Saining Xie, Silvio Savarese, Le Xue, Caiming Xiong, Ran Xu
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2025
bibkey: chen2025family
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.09568"}
tags: ['Efficiency and Optimization', 'Model Architecture', 'Training Techniques', 'Multimodal Models', 'Tools', 'Survey Paper', 'Merging', 'GPT', 'Pretraining Methods', 'Fine-Tuning', 'Transformer', 'Prompting', 'Attention Mechanism']
---
Unifying image understanding and generation has gained growing attention in recent research on multimodal models. Although design choices for image understanding have been extensively studied, the optimal model architecture and training recipe for a unified framework with image generation remain underexplored. Motivated by the strong potential of autoregressive and diffusion models for high-quality generation and scalability, we conduct a comprehensive study of their use in unified multimodal settings, with emphasis on image representations, modeling objectives, and training strategies. Grounded in these investigations, we introduce a novel approach that employs a diffusion transformer to generate semantically rich CLIP image features, in contrast to conventional VAE-based representations. This design yields both higher training efficiency and improved generative quality. Furthermore, we demonstrate that a sequential pretraining strategy for unified models-first training on image understanding and subsequently on image generation-offers practical advantages by preserving image understanding capability while developing strong image generation ability. Finally, we carefully curate a high-quality instruction-tuning dataset BLIP3o-60k for image generation by prompting GPT-4o with a diverse set of captions covering various scenes, objects, human gestures, and more. Building on our innovative model design, training recipe, and datasets, we develop BLIP3-o, a suite of state-of-the-art unified multimodal models. BLIP3-o achieves superior performance across most of the popular benchmarks spanning both image understanding and generation tasks. To facilitate future research, we fully open-source our models, including code, model weights, training scripts, and pretraining and instruction tuning datasets.
