---
layout: publication
title: Large Language Models for User Interest Journeys
authors: Christakopoulou Konstantina, Lalama Alberto, Adams Cj, Qu Iris, Amir Yifat, Chucri Samer, Vollucci Pierce, Soldo Fabio, Bseiso Dina, Scodel Sarah, Dixon Lucas, Chi Ed H., Chen Minmin
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2023
bibkey: christakopoulou2023large
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.15498"}
tags: ['Applications', 'Few Shot', 'Fine Tuning', 'In Context Learning', 'Pretraining Methods', 'Prompting', 'Tools', 'Training Techniques']
---
Large language models (LLMs) have shown impressive capabilities in natural language understanding and generation. Their potential for deeper user understanding and improved personalized user experience on recommendation platforms is however largely untapped. This paper aims to address this gap. Recommender systems today capture users interests through encoding their historical activities on the platforms. The generated user representations are hard to examine or interpret. On the other hand if we were to ask people about interests they pursue in their life they might talk about their hobbies like I just started learning the ukulele or their relaxation routines e.g. I like to watch Saturday Night Live or I want to plant a vertical garden. We argue and demonstrate through extensive experiments that LLMs as foundation models can reason through user activities and describe their interests in nuanced and interesting ways similar to how a human would. We define interest journeys as the persistent and overarching user interests in other words the non-transient ones. These are the interests that we believe will benefit most from the nuanced and personalized descriptions. We introduce a framework in which we first perform personalized extraction of interest journeys and then summarize the extracted journeys via LLMs using techniques like few-shot prompting prompt-tuning and fine-tuning. Together our results in prompting LLMs to name extracted user journeys in a large-scale industrial platform demonstrate great potential of these models in providing deeper more interpretable and controllable user understanding. We believe LLM powered user understanding can be a stepping stone to entirely new user experiences on recommendation platforms that are journey-aware assistive and enabling frictionless conversation down the line.
