---
layout: publication
title: Can We Trust Ai45;generated Educational Content Comparative Analysis Of Human And Ai45;generated Learning Resources
authors: Denny Paul, Khosravi Hassan, Hellas Arto, Leinonen Juho, Sarsa Sami
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2023
bibkey: denny2023can
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.10509"}
tags: ['Pretraining Methods', 'Tools']
---
As an increasing number of students move to online learning platforms that deliver personalized learning experiences there is a great need for the production of high45;quality educational content. Large language models (LLMs) appear to offer a promising solution to the rapid creation of learning materials at scale reducing the burden on instructors. In this study we investigated the potential for LLMs to produce learning resources in an introductory programming context by comparing the quality of the resources generated by an LLM with those created by students as part of a learnersourcing activity. Using a blind evaluation students rated the correctness and helpfulness of resources generated by AI and their peers after both were initially provided with identical exemplars. Our results show that the quality of AI45;generated resources as perceived by students is equivalent to the quality of resources generated by their peers. This suggests that AI45;generated resources may serve as viable supplementary material in certain contexts. Resources generated by LLMs tend to closely mirror the given exemplars whereas student45;generated resources exhibit greater variety in terms of content length and specific syntax features used. The study highlights the need for further research exploring different types of learning resources and a broader range of subject areas and understanding the long45;term impact of AI45;generated resources on learning outcomes.
