---
layout: publication
title: Plugmed: Improving Specificity In Patient-centered Medical Dialogue Generation Using In-context Learning
authors: Dou Chengfeng, Jin Zhi, Jiao Wenping, Zhao Haiyan, Tao Zhenwei, Zhao Yongqiang
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2023
bibkey: dou2023improving
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.11508"}
tags: ['Applications', 'In Context Learning', 'Prompting']
---
The patient-centered medical dialogue systems strive to offer diagnostic interpretation services to users who are less knowledgeable about medical knowledge through emphasizing the importance of providing responses specific to the patients. It is difficult for the large language models (LLMs) to guarantee the specificity of responses in spite of its promising performance even in some tasks in medical field. Inspired by in-context learning we propose PlugMed a Plug-and-Play Medical Dialogue System for addressing this challenge. PlugMed is equipped with two modules the prompt generation (PG) module and the response ranking (RR) module to enhances LLMs dialogue strategies for improving the specificity of the dialogue. The PG module is designed to stimulate the imitative ability of LLMs by providing them with real dialogues from similar patients as prompts. The RR module incorporates fine-tuned small model as response filter to enable the selection of appropriate responses generated by LLMs. Furthermore we introduce a new evaluation method based on matching both users intent and high-frequency medical term to effectively assess the specificity of the responses. We conduct experimental evaluations on three medical dialogue datasets and the results including both automatic and human evaluation demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach.
