---
layout: publication
title: 'Your Language Model Can Secretly Write Like Humans: Contrastive Paraphrase Attacks On Llm-generated Text Detectors'
authors: Hao Fang, Jiawei Kong, Tianqu Zhuang, Yixiang Qiu, Kuofeng Gao, Bin Chen, Shu-tao Xia, Yaowei Wang, Min Zhang
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2025
bibkey: fang2025your
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.15337"}
tags: ['RAG', 'Training Techniques', 'Security', 'Ethics and Bias']
---
The misuse of large language models (LLMs), such as academic plagiarism, has driven the development of detectors to identify LLM-generated texts. To bypass these detectors, paraphrase attacks have emerged to purposely rewrite these texts to evade detection. Despite the success, existing methods require substantial data and computational budgets to train a specialized paraphraser, and their attack efficacy greatly reduces when faced with advanced detection algorithms. To address this, we propose \textbf\{Co\}ntrastive \textbf\{P\}araphrase \textbf\{A\}ttack (CoPA), a training-free method that effectively deceives text detectors using off-the-shelf LLMs. The first step is to carefully craft instructions that encourage LLMs to produce more human-like texts. Nonetheless, we observe that the inherent statistical biases of LLMs can still result in some generated texts carrying certain machine-like attributes that can be captured by detectors. To overcome this, CoPA constructs an auxiliary machine-like word distribution as a contrast to the human-like distribution generated by the LLM. By subtracting the machine-like patterns from the human-like distribution during the decoding process, CoPA is able to produce sentences that are less discernible by text detectors. Our theoretical analysis suggests the superiority of the proposed attack. Extensive experiments validate the effectiveness of CoPA in fooling text detectors across various scenarios.
