---
layout: publication
title: 'The Devil Is In The Prompts: Retrieval-augmented Prompt Optimization For Text-to-video Generation'
authors: Bingjie Gao, Xinyu Gao, Xiaoxue Wu, Yujie Zhou, Yu Qiao, Li Niu, Xinyuan Chen, Yaohui Wang
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2025
bibkey: gao2025devil
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.11739'}
tags: ['RAG', 'Efficiency and Optimization', 'Training Techniques', 'Tools', 'Prompting']
---
The evolution of Text-to-video (T2V) generative models, trained on
large-scale datasets, has been marked by significant progress. However, the
sensitivity of T2V generative models to input prompts highlights the critical
role of prompt design in influencing generative outcomes. Prior research has
predominantly relied on Large Language Models (LLMs) to align user-provided
prompts with the distribution of training prompts, albeit without tailored
guidance encompassing prompt vocabulary and sentence structure nuances. To this
end, we introduce RAPO, a novel Retrieval-Augmented Prompt Optimization
framework. In order to address potential inaccuracies and ambiguous details
generated by LLM-generated prompts. RAPO refines the naive prompts through dual
optimization branches, selecting the superior prompt for T2V generation. The
first branch augments user prompts with diverse modifiers extracted from a
learned relational graph, refining them to align with the format of training
prompts via a fine-tuned LLM. Conversely, the second branch rewrites the naive
prompt using a pre-trained LLM following a well-defined instruction set.
Extensive experiments demonstrate that RAPO can effectively enhance both the
static and dynamic dimensions of generated videos, demonstrating the
significance of prompt optimization for user-provided prompts.
