---
layout: publication
title: 'Simulating H.P. Lovecraft Horror Literature With The Chatgpt Large Language Model'
authors: Eduardo C. Garrido-merchán, José Luis Arroyo-barrigüete, Roberto Gozalo-brizuela
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2023
bibkey: garridomerchán2023simulating
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.03429'}
tags: ['GPT', 'Applications', 'Model Architecture', 'Prompting', 'Survey Paper', 'Reinforcement Learning']
---
In this paper, we present a novel approach to simulating H.P. Lovecraft's
horror literature using the ChatGPT large language model, specifically the
GPT-4 architecture. Our study aims to generate text that emulates Lovecraft's
unique writing style and themes, while also examining the effectiveness of
prompt engineering techniques in guiding the model's output. To achieve this,
we curated a prompt containing several specialized literature references and
employed advanced prompt engineering methods. We conducted an empirical
evaluation of the generated text by administering a survey to a sample of
undergraduate students. Utilizing statistical hypothesis testing, we assessed
the students ability to distinguish between genuine Lovecraft works and those
generated by our model. Our findings demonstrate that the participants were
unable to reliably differentiate between the two, indicating the effectiveness
of the GPT-4 model and our prompt engineering techniques in emulating
Lovecraft's literary style. In addition to presenting the GPT model's
capabilities, this paper provides a comprehensive description of its underlying
architecture and offers a comparative analysis with related work that simulates
other notable authors and philosophers, such as Dennett. By exploring the
potential of large language models in the context of literary emulation, our
study contributes to the body of research on the applications and limitations
of these models in various creative domains.
