---
layout: publication
title: 'Working With Large Language Models To Enhance Messaging Effectiveness For Vaccine Confidence'
authors: Lucinda Gullison, Feng Fu
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2025
bibkey: gullison2025working
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.09857"}
tags: ['RAG', 'GPT', 'Model Architecture', 'Survey Paper']
---
Vaccine hesitancy and misinformation are significant barriers to achieving
widespread vaccination coverage. Smaller public health departments may lack the
expertise or resources to craft effective vaccine messaging. This paper
explores the potential of ChatGPT-augmented messaging to promote confidence in
vaccination uptake.
  We conducted a survey in which participants chose between pairs of
vaccination messages and assessed which was more persuasive and to what extent.
In each pair, one message was the original, and the other was augmented by
ChatGPT. At the end of the survey, participants were informed that half of the
messages had been generated by ChatGPT. They were then asked to provide both
quantitative and qualitative responses regarding how knowledge of a message's
ChatGPT origin affected their impressions.
  Overall, ChatGPT-augmented messages were rated slightly higher than the
original messages. These messages generally scored better when they were
longer. Respondents did not express major concerns about ChatGPT-generated
content, nor was there a significant relationship between participants' views
on ChatGPT and their message ratings. Notably, there was a correlation between
whether a message appeared first or second in a pair and its score.
  These results point to the potential of ChatGPT to enhance vaccine messaging,
suggesting a promising direction for future research on human-AI collaboration
in public health communication.
