---
layout: publication
title: Zero45;shot Paraphrase Generation With Multilingual Language Models
authors: Guo Yinpeng, Liao Yi, Jiang Xin, Zhang Qing, Zhang Yibo, Liu Qun
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2019
bibkey: guo2019zero
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/1911.03597"}
tags: ['Applications', 'Attention Mechanism', 'Efficiency And Optimization', 'GPT', 'Model Architecture', 'Pretraining Methods', 'RAG', 'Security', 'Transformer']
---
Leveraging multilingual parallel texts to automatically generate paraphrases has drawn much attention as size of high45;quality paraphrase corpus is limited. Round45;trip translation also known as the pivoting method is a typical approach to this end. However we notice that the pivoting process involves multiple machine translation models and is likely to incur semantic drift during the two45;step translations. In this paper inspired by the Transformer45;based language models we propose a simple and unified paraphrasing model which is purely trained on multilingual parallel data and can conduct zero45;shot paraphrase generation in one step. Compared with the pivoting approach paraphrases generated by our model is more semantically similar to the input sentence. Moreover since our model shares the same architecture as GPT (Radford et al. 2018) we are able to pre45;train the model on large45;scale unparallel corpus which further improves the fluency of the output sentences. In addition we introduce the mechanism of denoising auto45;encoder (DAE) to improve diversity and robustness of the model. Experimental results show that our model surpasses the pivoting method in terms of relevance diversity fluency and efficiency.
