---
layout: publication
title: Gemrec Towards Generative Model Recommendation
authors: Guo Yuanhe, Liu Haoming, Wen Hongyi
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2023
bibkey: guo2023gemrec
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.02205"}
  - {name: "Code", url: "https://github.com/MAPS-research/GEMRec"}
tags: ['Ethics And Bias', 'GPT', 'Has Code', 'Merging', 'Model Architecture', 'Prompting', 'Tools']
---
Recommender Systems are built to retrieve relevant items to satisfy users information needs. The candidate corpus usually consists of a finite set of items that are ready to be served such as videos products or articles. With recent advances in Generative AI such as GPT and Diffusion models a new form of recommendation task is yet to be explored where items are to be created by generative models with personalized prompts. Taking image generation as an example with a single prompt from the user and access to a generative model it is possible to generate hundreds of new images in a few minutes. How shall we attain personalization in the presence of infinite items In this preliminary study we propose a two-stage framework namely Prompt-Model Retrieval and Generated Item Ranking to approach this new task formulation. We release GEMRec-18K a prompt-model interaction dataset with 18K images generated by 200 publicly-available generative models paired with a diverse set of 90 textual prompts. Our findings demonstrate the promise of generative model recommendation as a novel personalization problem and the limitations of existing evaluation metrics. We highlight future directions for the RecSys community to advance towards generative recommender systems. Our code and dataset are available at https://github.com/MAPS-research/GEMRec.
