---
layout: publication
title: 'It Cannot Be Right If It Was Written By AI: On Lawyers'' Preferences Of Documents Perceived As Authored By An LLM Vs A Human'
authors: Harasta Jakub, Novotná Tereza, Savelka Jaromir
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: harasta2024it
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.06798"}
tags: ['Applications', 'RAG', 'Reinforcement Learning']
---
Large Language Models (LLMs) enable a future in which certain types of legal documents may be generated automatically. This has a great potential to streamline legal processes, lower the cost of legal services, and dramatically increase access to justice. While many researchers focus their efforts on proposing and evaluating LLM-based applications supporting tasks in the legal domain, there is a notable lack of investigations into how legal professionals perceive content if they believe it has been generated by an LLM. Yet, this is a critical point as over-reliance or unfounded skepticism may influence whether such documents bring about appropriate legal consequences. This study is the necessary analysis in the context of the ongoing transition towards mature generative AI systems. Specifically, we examined whether the perception of legal documents' by lawyers (n=75) varies based on their assumed origin (human-crafted vs AI-generated). The participants evaluated the documents focusing on their correctness and language quality. Our analysis revealed a clear preference for documents perceived as crafted by a human over those believed to be generated by AI. At the same time, most of the participants are expecting the future in which documents will be generated automatically. These findings could be leveraged by legal practitioners, policy makers and legislators to implement and adopt legal document generation technology responsibly, and to fuel the necessary discussions into how legal processes should be updated to reflect the recent technological developments.
