---
layout: publication
title: 'Answering Unseen Questions With Smaller Language Models Using Rationale Generation And Dense Retrieval'
authors: Hartill Tim, Benavides-prado Diana, Witbrock Michael, Riddle Patricia J.
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2023
bibkey: hartill2023answering
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.04711"}
tags: ['Few Shot', 'Prompting', 'RAG', 'Training Techniques']
---
'When provided with sufficient explanatory context, smaller Language Models have been shown to exhibit strong reasoning ability on challenging short-answer question-answering tasks where the questions are unseen in training. We evaluate two methods for further improvement in this setting. Both methods focus on combining rationales generated by a larger Language Model with longer contexts created from a multi-hop dense retrieval system. The first method (\(\textit{RR}\)) involves training a Rationale Ranking model to score both generated rationales and retrieved contexts with respect to relevance and truthfulness. We then use the scores to derive combined contexts from both knowledge sources using a number of combinatory strategies. For the second method (\(\textit{RATD}\)) we utilise retrieval-augmented training datasets developed by Hartill et al. 2023 to train a smaller Reasoning model such that it becomes proficient at utilising relevant information from longer text sequences that may be only partially evidential and frequently contain many irrelevant sentences. We find that both methods significantly improve results. Our single best Reasoning model materially improves upon strong comparable prior baselines for unseen evaluation datasets (StrategyQA 58.9 \(\rightarrow\) 61.7 acc., CommonsenseQA 63.6 \(\rightarrow\) 72.7 acc., ARC-DA 31.6 \(\rightarrow\) 52.1 F1, IIRC 25.5 \(\rightarrow\) 27.3 F1) and a version utilising our prior knowledge of each type of question in selecting a context combination strategy does even better. Our proposed models also generally outperform direct prompts against much larger models (BLOOM 175B and StableVicuna 13B) in both few-shot chain-of-thought and standard few-shot settings.'
