---
layout: publication
title: 'Is Conversational XAI All You Need? Human-ai Decision Making With A Conversational XAI Assistant'
authors: Gaole He, Nilay Aishwarya, Ujwal Gadiraju
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2025
bibkey: he2025is
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.17546"}
  - {name: "Code", url: "https://github.com/delftcrowd/IUI2025_ConvXAI"}
tags: ['Agentic', 'Interpretability', 'Has Code']
---
Explainable artificial intelligence (XAI) methods are being proposed to help
interpret and understand how AI systems reach specific predictions. Inspired by
prior work on conversational user interfaces, we argue that augmenting existing
XAI methods with conversational user interfaces can increase user engagement
and boost user understanding of the AI system. In this paper, we explored the
impact of a conversational XAI interface on users' understanding of the AI
system, their trust, and reliance on the AI system. In comparison to an XAI
dashboard, we found that the conversational XAI interface can bring about a
better understanding of the AI system among users and higher user trust.
However, users of both the XAI dashboard and conversational XAI interfaces
showed clear overreliance on the AI system. Enhanced conversations powered by
large language model (LLM) agents amplified over-reliance. Based on our
findings, we reason that the potential cause of such overreliance is the
illusion of explanatory depth that is concomitant with both XAI interfaces. Our
findings have important implications for designing effective conversational XAI
interfaces to facilitate appropriate reliance and improve human-AI
collaboration. Code can be found at
https://github.com/delftcrowd/IUI2025_ConvXAI
