---
layout: publication
title: Newsgpt Chatgpt Integration For Robot45;reporter
authors: Hireche Abdelhadi, Belkacem Abdelkader Nasreddine, Jamil Sadia, Chen Chao
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2023
bibkey: hireche2023chatgpt
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.06640"}
tags: ['Applications', 'GPT', 'Model Architecture', 'Pretraining Methods', 'RAG', 'Reinforcement Learning', 'Tools', 'Transformer']
---
The integration of large language models (LLMs) with social robots has emerged as a promising avenue for enhancing human45;robot interactions at a time when news reports generated by artificial intelligence (AI) are gaining in credibility. This integration is expected to intensify and become a more productive resource for journalism media communication and education. In this paper a novel system is proposed that integrates AIs generative pretrained transformer (GPT) model with the Pepper robot with the aim of improving the robots natural language understanding and response generation capabilities for enhanced social interactions. By leveraging GPTs powerful language processing capabilities this system offers a comprehensive pipeline that incorporates voice input recording speech45;to45;text transcription context analysis and text45;to45;speech synthesis action generation. The Pepper robot is enabled to comprehend user queries generate informative responses with general knowledge maintain contextually relevant conversations and act as a more domain45;oriented news reporter. It is also linked with a news resource and powered with a Google search capability. To evaluate the performance of the framework experiments were conducted involving a set of diverse questions. The robots responses were assessed on the basis of eight criteria including relevance context and fluency. Despite some identified limitations this system contributes to the field of journalism and human45;robot interaction by showcasing the potential of integrating LLMs with social robots. The proposed framework opens up opportunities for improving the conversational capabilities of robots enabling interactions that are smoother more engaging and more context aware.
