---
layout: publication
title: Llama Guard&#58; Llm-based Input-output Safeguard For Human-ai Conversations
authors: Inan Hakan, Upasani Kartikeya, Chi Jianfeng, Rungta Rashi, Iyer Krithika, Mao Yuning, Tontchev Michael, Hu Qing, Fuller Brian, Testuggine Davide, Khabsa Madian
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2023
bibkey: inan2023llama
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.06674"}
tags: ['Applications', 'Few Shot', 'Fine Tuning', 'In Context Learning', 'Pretraining Methods', 'Prompting', 'RAG', 'Responsible AI', 'Tools', 'Training Techniques']
---
We introduce Llama Guard an LLM-based input-output safeguard model geared towards Human-AI conversation use cases. Our model incorporates a safety risk taxonomy a valuable tool for categorizing a specific set of safety risks found in LLM prompts (i.e. prompt classification). This taxonomy is also instrumental in classifying the responses generated by LLMs to these prompts a process we refer to as response classification. For the purpose of both prompt and response classification we have meticulously gathered a dataset of high quality. Llama Guard a Llama2-7b model that is instruction-tuned on our collected dataset albeit low in volume demonstrates strong performance on existing benchmarks such as the OpenAI Moderation Evaluation dataset and ToxicChat where its performance matches or exceeds that of currently available content moderation tools. Llama Guard functions as a language model carrying out multi-class classification and generating binary decision scores. Furthermore the instruction fine-tuning of Llama Guard allows for the customization of tasks and the adaptation of output formats. This feature enhances the models capabilities such as enabling the adjustment of taxonomy categories to align with specific use cases and facilitating zero-shot or few-shot prompting with diverse taxonomies at the input. We are making Llama Guard model weights available and we encourage researchers to further develop and adapt them to meet the evolving needs of the community for AI safety.
