---
layout: publication
title: SEED Customize Large Language Models with Sample-Efficient Adaptation for Code Generation
authors: Jiang Xue, Dong Yihong, Jin Zhi, Li Ge
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: jiang2024seed
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.00046"}
tags: ['Applications', 'Fine Tuning', 'Pretraining Methods', 'RAG', 'Reinforcement Learning', 'Training Techniques']
---
Although Large Language Models (LLMs) have made significant progress in code generation they still struggle with code generation tasks in specific scenarios. These scenarios usually necessitate the adaptation of LLMs to fulfill specific needs but the limited training samples available in practice lead to poor code generation performance. Therefore how to effectively adapt LLMs to new scenarios with few training samples is a major challenge for current code generation. In this paper we propose a novel adaptation approach named SEED which stands for Sample-Efficient adaptation with Error-Driven learning for code generation. SEED leverages the errors made by LLMs as learning opportunities using error revision to overcome its own shortcomings thus achieving efficient learning. Specifically SEED involves identifying error code generated by LLMs employing Self-revise for code revision optimizing the model with revised code and iteratively adapting the process for continuous improvement. Experimental results show that compared to other mainstream fine-tuning approaches SEED achieves superior performance with few training samples showing an average relative improvement of 54.7 in Pass64;1 on multiple code generation benchmarks. We also validate the effectiveness of Self-revise which generates revised code that optimizes the model more efficiently compared to the code samples from datasets. Moreover SEED consistently demonstrates strong performance across various LLMs underscoring its generalizability.
