---
layout: publication
title: Wildteaming At Scale From In45;the45;wild Jailbreaks To (adversarially) Safer Language Models
authors: Jiang Liwei, Rao Kavel, Han Seungju, Ettinger Allyson, Brahman Faeze, Kumar Sachin, Mireshghallah Niloofar, Lu Ximing, Sap Maarten, Choi Yejin, Dziri Nouha
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: jiang2024wildteaming
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.18510"}
tags: ['Efficiency And Optimization', 'Ethics And Bias', 'Fine Tuning', 'Prompting', 'Responsible AI', 'Security', 'Tools', 'Training Techniques']
---
We introduce WildTeaming an automatic LLM safety red45;teaming framework that mines in45;the45;wild user45;chatbot interactions to discover 5.7K unique clusters of novel jailbreak tactics and then composes multiple tactics for systematic exploration of novel jailbreaks. Compared to prior work that performed red45;teaming via recruited human workers gradient45;based optimization or iterative revision with LLMs our work investigates jailbreaks from chatbot users who were not specifically instructed to break the system. WildTeaming reveals previously unidentified vulnerabilities of frontier LLMs resulting in up to 4.6x more diverse and successful adversarial attacks compared to state45;of45;the45;art jailbreak methods. While many datasets exist for jailbreak evaluation very few open45;source datasets exist for jailbreak training as safety training data has been closed even when model weights are open. With WildTeaming we create WildJailbreak a large45;scale open45;source synthetic safety dataset with 262K vanilla (direct request) and adversarial (complex jailbreak) prompt45;response pairs. To mitigate exaggerated safety behaviors WildJailbreak provides two contrastive types of queries 1) harmful queries (vanilla amp; adversarial) and 2) benign queries that resemble harmful queries in form but contain no harm. As WildJailbreak considerably upgrades the quality and scale of existing safety resources it uniquely enables us to examine the scaling effects of data and the interplay of data properties and model capabilities during safety training. Through extensive experiments we identify the training properties that enable an ideal balance of safety behaviors appropriate safeguarding without over45;refusal effective handling of vanilla and adversarial queries and minimal if any decrease in general capabilities. All components of WildJailbeak contribute to achieving balanced safety behaviors of models.
