---
layout: publication
title: Assessing The Promise And Pitfalls Of Chatgpt For Automated Code Generation
authors: Khan Muhammad Fawad Akbar, Ramsdell Max, Falor Erik, Karimi Hamid
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2023
bibkey: khan2023assessing
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.02640"}
  - {name: "Code", url: "https://github.com/DSAatUSU/ChatGPT-promises-and-pitfalls"}
tags: ['Applications', 'GPT', 'Has Code', 'Model Architecture', 'Prompting', 'Security']
---
This paper presents a comprehensive evaluation of the code generation capabilities of ChatGPT a prominent large language model compared to human programmers. A novel dataset of 131 code-generation prompts across 5 categories was curated to enable robust analysis. Code solutions were generated by both ChatGPT and humans for all prompts resulting in 262 code samples. A meticulous manual assessment methodology prioritized evaluating correctness comprehensibility and security using 14 established code quality metrics. The key findings reveal ChatGPTs strengths in crafting concise efficient code with advanced constructs showcasing strengths in data analysis tasks (93.137; accuracy) but limitations in visual-graphical challenges. Comparative analysis with human code highlights ChatGPTs inclination towards modular design and superior error handling. Additionally machine learning models effectively distinguished ChatGPT from human code with up to 8837; accuracy suggesting detectable coding style disparities. By providing profound insights into ChatGPTs code generation capabilities and limitations through quantitative metrics and qualitative analysis this study makes valuable contributions toward advancing AI-based programming assistants. The curated dataset and methodology offer a robust foundation for future research in this nascent domain. All data and codes are available on https://github.com/DSAatUSU/ChatGPT-promises-and-pitfalls."
