---
layout: publication
title: Human Evaluation Of English45;45;irish Transformer45;based NMT
authors: Lankford Séamus, Afli Haithem, Way Andy
conference: "Information"
year: 2024
bibkey: lankford2024human
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.02366"}
tags: ['Applications', 'Attention Mechanism', 'Model Architecture', 'Pretraining Methods', 'Transformer']
---
In this study a human evaluation is carried out on how hyperparameter settings impact the quality of Transformer45;based Neural Machine Translation (NMT) for the low45;resourced English45;45;Irish pair. SentencePiece models using both Byte Pair Encoding (BPE) and unigram approaches were appraised. Variations in model architectures included modifying the number of layers evaluating the optimal number of heads for attention and testing various regularisation techniques. The greatest performance improvement was recorded for a Transformer45;optimized model with a 16k BPE subword model. Compared with a baseline Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) model a Transformer45;optimized model demonstrated a BLEU score improvement of 7.8 points. When benchmarked against Google Translate our translation engines demonstrated significant improvements. Furthermore a quantitative fine45;grained manual evaluation was conducted which compared the performance of machine translation systems. Using the Multidimensional Quality Metrics (MQM) error taxonomy a human evaluation of the error types generated by an RNN45;based system and a Transformer45;based system was explored. Our findings show the best45;performing Transformer system significantly reduces both accuracy and fluency errors when compared with an RNN45;based model.
