---
layout: publication
title: 'Agentic Verification For Ambiguous Query Disambiguation'
authors: Youngwon Lee, Seung-won Hwang, Ruofan Wu, Feng Yan, Danmei Xu, Moutasem Akkad, Zhewei Yao, Yuxiong He
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2025
bibkey: lee2025agentic
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.10352'}
tags: ['Agentic', 'RAG', 'Efficiency and Optimization', 'Security', 'Reinforcement Learning']
---
In this work, we tackle the challenge of disambiguating queries in
retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) to diverse yet answerable interpretations.
State-of-the-arts follow a Diversify-then-Verify (DtV) pipeline, where diverse
interpretations are generated by an LLM, later used as search queries to
retrieve supporting passages. Such a process may introduce noise in either
interpretations or retrieval, particularly in enterprise settings, where LLMs
-- trained on static data -- may struggle with domain-specific disambiguations.
Thus, a post-hoc verification phase is introduced to prune noises. Our
distinction is to unify diversification with verification by incorporating
feedback from retriever and generator early on. This joint approach improves
both efficiency and robustness by reducing reliance on multiple retrieval and
inference steps, which are susceptible to cascading errors. We validate the
efficiency and effectiveness of our method, Verified-Diversification with
Consolidation (VERDICT), on the widely adopted ASQA benchmark to achieve
diverse yet verifiable interpretations. Empirical results show that VERDICT
improves grounding-aware F1 score by an average of 23% over the strongest
baseline across different backbone LLMs.
