---
layout: publication
title: 'Nexus: An Omni-perceptive And -interactive Model For Language, Audio, And Vision'
authors: Che Liu, Yingji Zhang, Dong Zhang, Weijie Zhang, Chenggong Gong, Haohan Li, Yu Lu, Shilin Zhou, Yue Lu, Ziliang Gan, Ziao Wang, Junwei Liao, Haipang Wu, Ji Liu, André Freitas, Qifan Wang, Zenglin Xu, Rongjuncheng Zhang, Yong Dai
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2025
bibkey: liu2025omni
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01879"}
tags: ['INTERSPEECH', 'Pre-Training', 'Efficiency and Optimization', 'Applications', 'Tools', 'Model Architecture', 'Reinforcement Learning', 'Security', 'Training Techniques', 'Multimodal Models']
---
This work proposes an industry-level omni-modal large language model (LLM) pipeline that integrates auditory, visual, and linguistic modalities to overcome challenges such as limited tri-modal datasets, high computational costs, and complex feature alignments. Our pipeline consists of three main components: First, a modular framework enabling flexible configuration of various encoder-LLM-decoder architectures. Second, a lightweight training strategy that pre-trains audio-language alignment on the state-of-the-art vision-language model Qwen2.5-VL, thus avoiding the costly pre-training of vision-specific modalities. Third, an audio synthesis pipeline that generates high-quality audio-text data from diverse real-world scenarios, supporting applications such as Automatic Speech Recognition and Speech-to-Speech chat. To this end, we introduce an industry-level omni-modal LLM, Nexus. Extensive experiments validate the efficacy of our pipeline, yielding the following key findings:(1) In the visual understanding task, Nexus exhibits superior performance compared with its backbone model - Qwen2.5-VL-7B, validating the efficiency of our training strategy. (2) Within the English Spoken Question-Answering task, the model achieves better accuracy than the same-period competitor (i.e, MiniCPM-o2.6-7B) in the LLaMA Q. benchmark. (3) In our real-world ASR testset, Nexus achieves outstanding performance, indicating its robustness in real scenarios. (4) In the Speech-to-Text Translation task, our model outperforms Qwen2-Audio-Instruct-7B. (5) In the Text-to-Speech task, based on pretrained vocoder (e.g., Fishspeech1.4 or CosyVoice2.0), Nexus is comparable to its backbone vocoder on Seed-TTS benchmark. (6) An in-depth analysis of tri-modal alignment reveals that incorporating the audio modality enhances representational alignment between vision and language.
