---
layout: publication
title: Llmrec Benchmarking Large Language Models On Recommendation Task
authors: Liu Junling, Liu Chao, Zhou Peilin, Ye Qichen, Chong Dading, Zhou Kang, Xie Yueqi, Cao Yuwei, Wang Shoujin, You Chenyu, Yu Philip S.
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2023
bibkey: liu2023llmrec
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.12241"}
  - {name: "Code", url: "https://github.com/williamliujl/LLMRec"}
tags: ['Applications', 'GPT', 'Has Code', 'Interpretability And Explainability', 'Model Architecture', 'Survey Paper']
---
Recently the fast development of Large Language Models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT has significantly advanced NLP tasks by enhancing the capabilities of conversational models. However the application of LLMs in the recommendation domain has not been thoroughly investigated. To bridge this gap we propose LLMRec a LLM-based recommender system designed for benchmarking LLMs on various recommendation tasks. Specifically we benchmark several popular off-the-shelf LLMs such as ChatGPT LLaMA ChatGLM on five recommendation tasks including rating prediction sequential recommendation direct recommendation explanation generation and review summarization. Furthermore we investigate the effectiveness of supervised finetuning to improve LLMs instruction compliance ability. The benchmark results indicate that LLMs displayed only moderate proficiency in accuracy-based tasks such as sequential and direct recommendation. However they demonstrated comparable performance to state-of-the-art methods in explainability-based tasks. We also conduct qualitative evaluations to further evaluate the quality of contents generated by different models and the results show that LLMs can truly understand the provided information and generate clearer and more reasonable results. We aspire that this benchmark will serve as an inspiration for researchers to delve deeper into the potential of LLMs in enhancing recommendation performance. Our codes processed data and benchmark results are available at https://github.com/williamliujl/LLMRec.
