---
layout: publication
title: 'Y-mol: A Multiscale Biomedical Knowledge-guided Large Language Model For Drug Development'
authors: Tengfei Ma, Xuan Lin, Tianle Li, Chaoyi Li, Long Chen, Peng Zhou, Xibao Cai, Xinyu Yang, Daojian Zeng, Dongsheng Cao, Xiangxiang Zeng
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: ma2024y
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.11550'}
tags: ['Prompting', 'Applications', 'Tools']
---
Large Language Models (LLMs) have recently demonstrated remarkable
performance in general tasks across various fields. However, their
effectiveness within specific domains such as drug development remains
challenges. To solve these challenges, we introduce \textbf\{Y-Mol\}, forming a
well-established LLM paradigm for the flow of drug development. Y-Mol is a
multiscale biomedical knowledge-guided LLM designed to accomplish tasks across
lead compound discovery, pre-clinic, and clinic prediction. By integrating
millions of multiscale biomedical knowledge and using LLaMA2 as the base LLM,
Y-Mol augments the reasoning capability in the biomedical domain by learning
from a corpus of publications, knowledge graphs, and expert-designed synthetic
data. The capability is further enriched with three types of drug-oriented
instructions: description-based prompts from processed publications,
semantic-based prompts for extracting associations from knowledge graphs, and
template-based prompts for understanding expert knowledge from biomedical
tools. Besides, Y-Mol offers a set of LLM paradigms that can autonomously
execute the downstream tasks across the entire process of drug development,
including virtual screening, drug design, pharmacological properties
prediction, and drug-related interaction prediction. Our extensive evaluations
of various biomedical sources demonstrate that Y-Mol significantly outperforms
general-purpose LLMs in discovering lead compounds, predicting molecular
properties, and identifying drug interaction events.
