---
layout: publication
title: 'Chatgpt In Research And Education: Exploring Benefits And Threats'
authors: Abu Saleh Musa Miah, Md Mahbubur Rahman Tusher, Md. Moazzem Hossain, Md Mamun Hossain, Md Abdur Rahim, Md Ekramul Hamid, Md. Saiful Islam, Jungpil Shin
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: miah2024chatgpt
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.02816"}
tags: ['Reinforcement Learning', 'GPT', 'Model Architecture', 'Survey Paper']
---
In recent years, advanced artificial intelligence technologies, such as
ChatGPT, have significantly impacted various fields, including education and
research. Developed by OpenAI, ChatGPT is a powerful language model that
presents numerous opportunities for students and educators. It offers
personalized feedback, enhances accessibility, enables interactive
conversations, assists with lesson preparation and evaluation, and introduces
new methods for teaching complex subjects. However, ChatGPT also poses
challenges to traditional education and research systems. These challenges
include the risk of cheating on online exams, the generation of human-like text
that may compromise academic integrity, a potential decline in critical
thinking skills, and difficulties in assessing the reliability of information
generated by AI. This study examines both the opportunities and challenges
ChatGPT brings to education from the perspectives of students and educators.
Specifically, it explores the role of ChatGPT in helping students develop their
subjective skills. To demonstrate its effectiveness, we conducted several
subjective experiments using ChatGPT, such as generating solutions from
subjective problem descriptions. Additionally, surveys were conducted with
students and teachers to gather insights into how ChatGPT supports subjective
learning and teaching. The results and analysis of these surveys are presented
to highlight the impact of ChatGPT in this context.
