---
layout: publication
title: 'Testing Llms'' Capabilities In Annotating Translations Based On An Error Typology Designed For LSP Translation: First Experiments With Chatgpt'
authors: Joachim Minder, Guillaume Wisniewski, Natalie Kübler
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2025
bibkey: minder2025testing
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.15052"}
tags: ['Training Techniques', 'Model Architecture', 'Reinforcement Learning', 'GPT', 'Prompting']
---
This study investigates the capabilities of large language models (LLMs),
specifically ChatGPT, in annotating MT outputs based on an error typology. In
contrast to previous work focusing mainly on general language, we explore
ChatGPT's ability to identify and categorise errors in specialised
translations. By testing two different prompts and based on a customised error
typology, we compare ChatGPT annotations with human expert evaluations of
translations produced by DeepL and ChatGPT itself. The results show that, for
translations generated by DeepL, recall and precision are quite high. However,
the degree of accuracy in error categorisation depends on the prompt's specific
features and its level of detail, ChatGPT performing very well with a detailed
prompt. When evaluating its own translations, ChatGPT achieves significantly
poorer results, revealing limitations with self-assessment. These results
highlight both the potential and the limitations of LLMs for translation
evaluation, particularly in specialised domains. Our experiments pave the way
for future research on open-source LLMs, which could produce annotations of
comparable or even higher quality. In the future, we also aim to test the
practical effectiveness of this automated evaluation in the context of
translation training, particularly by optimising the process of human
evaluation by teachers and by exploring the impact of annotations by LLMs on
students' post-editing and translation learning.
