---
layout: publication
title: Are Large Language Models Superhuman Chemists
authors: Mirza Adrian, Alampara Nawaf, Kunchapu Sreekanth, Emoekabu Benedict, Krishnan Aswanth, Wilhelmi Mara, Okereke Macjonathan, Eberhardt Juliane, Elahi Amir Mohammad, Greiner Maximilian, Holick Caroline T., Gupta Tanya, Asgari Mehrdad, Glaubitz Christina, Klepsch Lea C., Köster Yannik, Meyer Jakob, Miret Santiago, Hoffmann Tim, Kreth Fabian Alexander, Ringleb Michael, Roesner Nicole, Schubert Ulrich S., Stafast Leanne M., Wonanke Dinga, Pieler Michael, Schwaller Philippe, Jablonka Kevin Maik
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: mirza2024are
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.01475"}
tags: ['Pretraining Methods', 'RAG', 'Responsible AI', 'Tools']
---
Large language models (LLMs) have gained widespread interest due to their ability to process human language and perform tasks on which they have not been explicitly trained. This is relevant for the chemical sciences which face the problem of small and diverse datasets that are frequently in the form of text. LLMs have shown promise in addressing these issues and are increasingly being harnessed to predict chemical properties optimize reactions and even design and conduct experiments autonomously. However we still have only a very limited systematic understanding of the chemical reasoning capabilities of LLMs which would be required to improve models and mitigate potential harms. Here we introduce ChemBench an automated framework designed to rigorously evaluate the chemical knowledge and reasoning abilities of state45;of45;the45;art LLMs against the expertise of human chemists. We curated more than 7000 question45;answer pairs for a wide array of subfields of the chemical sciences evaluated leading open and closed45;source LLMs and found that the best models outperformed the best human chemists in our study on average. The models however struggle with some chemical reasoning tasks that are easy for human experts and provide overconfident misleading predictions such as about chemicals safety profiles. These findings underscore the dual reality that although LLMs demonstrate remarkable proficiency in chemical tasks further research is critical to enhancing their safety and utility in chemical sciences. Our findings also indicate a need for adaptations to chemistry curricula and highlight the importance of continuing to develop evaluation frameworks to improve safe and useful LLMs.
