---
layout: publication
title: 'Chatgpt Or Human? Detect And Explain. Explaining Decisions Of Machine Learning Model For Detecting Short Chatgpt-generated Text'
authors: Sandra Mitrović, Davide Andreoletti, Omran Ayoub
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2023
citations: 65
bibkey: mitrović2023chatgpt
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.13852'}
tags: ['Interpretability and Explainability', 'Transformer', 'Model Architecture', 'Applications', 'Tools', 'GPT', 'Interpretability', 'Pretraining Methods']
---
ChatGPT has the ability to generate grammatically flawless and
seemingly-human replies to different types of questions from various domains.
The number of its users and of its applications is growing at an unprecedented
rate. Unfortunately, use and abuse come hand in hand. In this paper, we study
whether a machine learning model can be effectively trained to accurately
distinguish between original human and seemingly human (that is,
ChatGPT-generated) text, especially when this text is short. Furthermore, we
employ an explainable artificial intelligence framework to gain insight into
the reasoning behind the model trained to differentiate between
ChatGPT-generated and human-generated text. The goal is to analyze model's
decisions and determine if any specific patterns or characteristics can be
identified. Our study focuses on short online reviews, conducting two
experiments comparing human-generated and ChatGPT-generated text. The first
experiment involves ChatGPT text generated from custom queries, while the
second experiment involves text generated by rephrasing original
human-generated reviews. We fine-tune a Transformer-based model and use it to
make predictions, which are then explained using SHAP. We compare our model
with a perplexity score-based approach and find that disambiguation between
human and ChatGPT-generated reviews is more challenging for the ML model when
using rephrased text. However, our proposed approach still achieves an accuracy
of 79%. Using explainability, we observe that ChatGPT's writing is polite,
without specific details, using fancy and atypical vocabulary, impersonal, and
typically it does not express feelings.
