---
layout: publication
title: 'Cookbook: A Framework For Improving LLM Generative Abilities Via Programmatic Data Generating Templates'
authors: Avanika Narayan, Mayee F. Chen, Kush Bhatia, Christopher Ré
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: narayan2024framework
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.05224"}
tags: ['Training Techniques', 'Model Architecture', 'Tools', 'RAG', 'GPT', 'Pretraining Methods', 'Fine-Tuning']
---
Fine-tuning large language models (LLMs) on instruction datasets is a common
way to improve their generative capabilities. However, instruction datasets can
be expensive and time-consuming to manually curate, and while LLM-generated
data is less labor-intensive, it may violate user privacy agreements or terms
of service of LLM providers. Therefore, we seek a way of constructing
instruction datasets with samples that are not generated by humans or LLMs but
still improve LLM generative capabilities. In this work, we introduce Cookbook,
a framework that programmatically generates training data consisting of simple
patterns over random tokens, resulting in a scalable, cost-effective approach
that avoids legal and privacy issues. First, Cookbook uses a template -- a data
generating Python function -- to produce training data that encourages the
model to learn an explicit pattern-based rule that corresponds to a desired
task. We find that fine-tuning on Cookbook-generated data is able to improve
performance on its corresponding task by up to 52.7 accuracy points. Second,
since instruction datasets improve performance on multiple downstream tasks
simultaneously, Cookbook algorithmically learns how to mix data from various
templates to optimize performance on multiple tasks. On the standard multi-task
GPT4ALL evaluation suite, Mistral-7B fine-tuned using a Cookbook-generated
dataset attains the best accuracy on average compared to other 7B parameter
instruction-tuned models and is the best performing model on 3 out of 8 tasks.
Finally, we analyze when and why Cookbook improves performance and present a
metric that allows us to verify that the improvement is largely explained by
the model's generations adhering better to template rules.
