---
layout: publication
title: 'Refer: Improving Evaluation And Reasoning Through Hierarchy Of Models'
authors: Yaswanth Narsupalli, Abhranil Chandra, Sreevatsa Muppirala, Manish Gupta, Pawan Goyal
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: narsupalli2024improving
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.12877"}
  - {name: "Code", url: "https://pypi.org/project/refer-agents/"}
  - {name: "Code", url: "https://github.com/yaswanth-iitkgp/ReFeR_Code"}
tags: ['Agentic', 'Tools', 'RAG', 'Reinforcement Learning', 'Training Techniques', 'Has Code']
---
Assessing the quality of outputs generated by generative models, such as
large language models and vision language models, presents notable challenges.
Traditional methods for evaluation typically rely on either human assessments,
which are resource-intensive, or automatic metrics that often show a low
correlation with human judgment. Another common approach is to use deep
learning systems, which not only consume a substantial amount of compute and
time but also require extensive training data. In this study, we introduce a
tuning-free framework called ReFeR, designed to evaluate generative outputs,
including both text and images, by leveraging a 2-level hierarchy of LLMs and
VLMs themselves. We rigorously evaluate our framework, ReFeR, across four
diverse evaluation tasks. The framework not only improves the accuracy of these
evaluations, surpassing previous benchmarks but also generates constructive
feedback. Interestingly, the framework is also applicable to reasoning tasks.
Experiments on four reasoning tasks demonstrate superior collective reasoning
abilities of the framework. We present two variants of the framework:
ReFeR-Turbo, optimized for accelerated performance, and ReFeR-Lite, offering a
more cost-effective solution. ReFeR-Lite is \\(\sim7.7\times\\) more efficient
while being comparably accurate to ReFeR-Turbo. We make code, data and PIP
package publicly available. See this PIP URL
https://pypi.org/project/refer-agents/ and this Git URL
https://github.com/yaswanth-iitkgp/ReFeR_Code .
