---
layout: publication
title: Dude Dual Distribution45;aware Context Prompt Learning For Large Vision45;language Model
authors: Nguyen Duy M. H., Le An T., Nguyen Trung Q., Diep Nghiem T., Nguyen Tai, Duong-tran Duy, Peters Jan, Shen Li, Niepert Mathias, Sonntag Daniel
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: nguyen2024dual
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.04489"}
tags: ['Attention Mechanism', 'Ethics And Bias', 'GPT', 'Model Architecture', 'Prompting', 'Reinforcement Learning', 'Tools', 'Training Techniques']
---
Prompt learning methods are gaining increasing attention due to their ability to customize large vision45;language models to new domains using pre45;trained contextual knowledge and minimal training data. However existing works typically rely on optimizing unified prompt inputs often struggling with fine45;grained classification tasks due to insufficient discriminative attributes. To tackle this we consider a new framework based on a dual context of both domain45;shared and class45;specific contexts where the latter is generated by Large Language Models (LLMs) such as GPTs. Such dual prompt methods enhance the models feature representation by joining implicit and explicit factors encoded in LLM knowledge. Moreover we formulate the Unbalanced Optimal Transport (UOT) theory to quantify the relationships between constructed prompts and visual tokens. Through partial matching UOT can properly align discrete sets of visual tokens and prompt embeddings under different mass distributions which is particularly valuable for handling irrelevant or noisy elements ensuring that the preservation of mass does not restrict transport solutions. Furthermore UOTs characteristics integrate seamlessly with image augmentation expanding the training sample pool while maintaining a reasonable distance between perturbed images and prompt inputs. Extensive experiments across few45;shot classification and adapter settings substantiate the superiority of our model over current state45;of45;the45;art baselines.
