---
layout: publication
title: 'Prompt-oriented Output Of Culture-specific Items In Translated African Poetry By Large Language Model: An Initial Multi-layered Tabular Review'
authors: Adeyola Opaluwah
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2025
bibkey: opaluwah2025prompt
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.18644"}
tags: ['Transformer', 'Tools', 'Model Architecture', 'Reinforcement Learning', 'Pretraining Methods', 'Prompting']
---
This paper examines the output of cultural items generated by Chat Generative
PreTrained Transformer Pro in response to three structured prompts to translate
three anthologies of African poetry. The first prompt was broad, the second
focused on poetic structure, and the third prompt emphasized cultural
specificity. To support this analysis, four comparative tables were created.
The first table presents the results of the cultural items produced after the
three prompts, the second categorizes these outputs based on Aixela framework
of Proper nouns and Common expressions, the third table summarizes the cultural
items generated by human translators, a custom translation engine, and a Large
Language Model. The final table outlines the strategies employed by Chat
Generative PreTrained Transformer Pro following the culture specific prompt.
Compared to the outputs of cultural items from reference human translation and
the custom translation engine in prior studies the findings indicate that the
culture oriented prompts used with Chat Generative PreTrained Transformer Pro
did not yield significant enhancements of cultural items during the translation
of African poetry from English to French. Among the fifty four cultural items,
the human translation produced thirty three cultural items in repetition, the
custom translation engine generated Thirty eight cultural items in repetition
while Chat Generative PreTrained Transformer Pro produced forty one cultural
items in repetition. The untranslated cultural items revealed inconsistencies
in Large language models approach to translating cultural items in African
poetry from English to French.
