---
layout: publication
title: V45;RECS A Low45;cost LLM4VIS Recommender With Explanations Captioning And Suggestions
authors: Podo Luca, Angelini Marco, Velardi Paola
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: podo2024v
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.15259"}
tags: ['Applications', 'Fine Tuning', 'GPT', 'Interpretability And Explainability', 'Model Architecture', 'Prompting', 'RAG', 'Reinforcement Learning', 'Tools']
---
NL2VIS (natural language to visualization) is a promising and recent research area that involves interpreting natural language queries and translating them into visualizations that accurately represent the underlying data. As we navigate the era of big data NL2VIS holds considerable application potential since it greatly facilitates data exploration by non45;expert users. Following the increasingly widespread usage of generative AI in NL2VIS applications in this paper we present V45;RECS the first LLM45;based Visual Recommender augmented with explanations(E) captioning(C) and suggestions(S) for further data exploration. V45;RECS visualization narratives facilitate both response verification and data exploration by non45;expert users. Furthermore our proposed solution mitigates computational controllability and cost issues associated with using powerful LLMs by leveraging a methodology to effectively fine45;tune small models. To generate insightful visualization narratives we use Chain45;of45;Thoughts (CoT) a prompt engineering technique to help LLM identify and generate the logical steps to produce a correct answer. Since CoT is reported to perform poorly with small LLMs we adopted a strategy in which a large LLM (GPT45;4) acting as a Teacher generates CoT45;based instructions to fine45;tune a small model Llama45;245;7B which plays the role of a Student. Extensive experiments45;based on a framework for the quantitative evaluation of AI45;based visualizations and on manual assessment by a group of participants45;show that V45;RECS achieves performance scores comparable to GPT45;4 at a much lower cost. The efficacy of the V45;RECS teacher45;student paradigm is also demonstrated by the fact that the un45;tuned Llama fails to perform the task in the vast majority of test cases. We release V45;RECS for the visualization community to assist visualization designers throughout the entire visualization generation process.
