---
layout: publication
title: A Self45;paced Mixed Distillation Method For Non45;autoregressive Generation
authors: Qi Weizhen, Gong Yeyun, Shen Yelong, Jiao Jian, Yan Yu, Li Houqiang, Zhang Ruofei, Chen Weizhu, Duan Nan
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2022
bibkey: qi2022self
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2205.11162"}
tags: ['Applications', 'Distillation', 'Efficiency And Optimization', 'GPT', 'Language Modeling', 'Pretraining Methods', 'RAG', 'Reinforcement Learning', 'Training Techniques']
---
Non45;Autoregressive generation is a sequence generation paradigm which removes the dependency between target tokens. It could efficiently reduce the text generation latency with parallel decoding in place of token45;by45;token sequential decoding. However due to the known multi45;modality problem Non45;Autoregressive (NAR) models significantly under45;perform Auto45;regressive (AR) models on various language generation tasks. Among the NAR models BANG is the first large45;scale pre45;training model on English un45;labeled raw text corpus. It considers different generation paradigms as its pre45;training tasks including Auto45;regressive (AR) Non45;Autoregressive (NAR) and semi45;Non45;Autoregressive (semi45;NAR) information flow with multi45;stream strategy. It achieves state45;of45;the45;art performance without any distillation techniques. However AR distillation has been shown to be a very effective solution for improving NAR performance. In this paper we propose a novel self45;paced mixed distillation method to further improve the generation quality of BANG. Firstly we propose the mixed distillation strategy based on the AR stream knowledge. Secondly we encourage the model to focus on the samples with the same modality by self45;paced learning. The proposed self45;paced mixed distillation algorithm improves the generation quality and has no influence on the inference latency. We carry out extensive experiments on summarization and question generation tasks to validate the effectiveness. To further illustrate the commercial value of our approach we conduct experiments on three generation tasks in real45;world advertisements applications. Experimental results on commercial data show the effectiveness of the proposed model. Compared with BANG it achieves significant BLEU score improvement. On the other hand compared with auto45;regressive generation method it achieves more than 7x speedup.
