---
layout: publication
title: 'VC-LLM: Automated Advertisement Video Creation From Raw Footage Using Multi-modal Llms'
authors: Dongjun Qian, Kai Su, Yiming Tan, Qishuai Diao, Xian Wu, Chang Liu, Bingyue Peng, Zehuan Yuan
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2025
bibkey: qian2025vc
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.05673"}
tags: ['Fine-Tuning', 'Pre-Training', 'GPT', 'Efficiency and Optimization', 'Tools', 'RAG', 'Model Architecture', 'Training Techniques', 'Pretraining Methods']
---
As short videos have risen in popularity, the role of video content in
advertising has become increasingly significant. Typically, advertisers record
a large amount of raw footage about the product and then create numerous
different short-form advertisement videos based on this raw footage. Creating
such videos mainly involves editing raw footage and writing advertisement
scripts, which requires a certain level of creative ability. It is usually
challenging to create many different video contents for the same product, and
manual efficiency is often low. In this paper, we present VC-LLM, a framework
powered by Large Language Models for the automatic creation of high-quality
short-form advertisement videos. Our approach leverages high-resolution spatial
input and low-resolution temporal input to represent video clips more
effectively, capturing both fine-grained visual details and broader temporal
dynamics. In addition, during training, we incorporate supplementary
information generated by rewriting the ground truth text, ensuring that all key
output information can be directly traced back to the input, thereby reducing
model hallucinations. We also designed a benchmark to evaluate the quality of
the created videos. Experiments show that VC-LLM based on GPT-4o can produce
videos comparable to those created by humans. Furthermore, we collected
numerous high-quality short advertisement videos to create a pre-training
dataset and manually cleaned a portion of the data to construct a high-quality
fine-tuning dataset. Experiments indicate that, on the benchmark, the VC-LLM
based on fine-tuned LLM can produce videos with superior narrative logic
compared to those created by the VC-LLM based on GPT-4o.
