---
layout: publication
title: 'Interactive Agents: Simulating Counselor-client Psychological Counseling Via Role-playing Llm-to-llm Interactions'
authors: Huachuan Qiu, Zhenzhong Lan
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: qiu2024interactive
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.15787"}
tags: ['Agentic', 'GPT', 'Tools', 'Model Architecture', 'Reinforcement Learning', 'Prompting']
---
Virtual counselors powered by large language models (LLMs) aim to create
interactive support systems that effectively assist clients struggling with
mental health challenges. To replicate counselor-client conversations,
researchers have built an online mental health platform that allows
professional counselors to provide clients with text-based counseling services
for about an hour per session. Notwithstanding its effectiveness, challenges
exist as human annotation is time-consuming, cost-intensive, privacy-protected,
and not scalable. To address this issue and investigate the applicability of
LLMs in psychological counseling conversation simulation, we propose a
framework that employs two LLMs via role-playing for simulating
counselor-client interactions. Our framework involves two LLMs, one acting as a
client equipped with a specific and real-life user profile and the other
playing the role of an experienced counselor, generating professional responses
using integrative therapy techniques. We implement both the counselor and the
client by zero-shot prompting the GPT-4 model. In order to assess the
effectiveness of LLMs in simulating counselor-client interactions and
understand the disparities between LLM- and human-generated conversations, we
evaluate the synthetic data from various perspectives. We begin by assessing
the client's performance through automatic evaluations. Next, we analyze and
compare the disparities between dialogues generated by the LLM and those
generated by professional counselors. Furthermore, we conduct extensive
experiments to thoroughly examine the performance of our LLM-based counselor
trained with synthetic interactive dialogues by benchmarking against
state-of-the-art models for mental health.
