---
layout: publication
title: 'Lext: Towards Evaluating Trustworthiness Of Natural Language Explanations'
authors: Krithi Shailya, Shreya Rajpal, Gokul S Krishnan, Balaraman Ravindran
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2025
bibkey: shailya2025towards
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.06227"}
  - {name: "Code", url: "https://github.com/cerai-iitm/LExT)"}
tags: ['Tools', 'Reinforcement Learning', 'Ethics and Bias', 'Interpretability', 'Has Code', 'Interpretability and Explainability']
---
As Large Language Models (LLMs) become increasingly integrated into
high-stakes domains, there have been several approaches proposed toward
generating natural language explanations. These explanations are crucial for
enhancing the interpretability of a model, especially in sensitive domains like
healthcare, where transparency and reliability are key. In light of such
explanations being generated by LLMs and its known concerns, there is a growing
need for robust evaluation frameworks to assess model-generated explanations.
Natural Language Generation metrics like BLEU and ROUGE capture syntactic and
semantic accuracies but overlook other crucial aspects such as factual
accuracy, consistency, and faithfulness. To address this gap, we propose a
general framework for quantifying trustworthiness of natural language
explanations, balancing Plausibility and Faithfulness, to derive a
comprehensive Language Explanation Trustworthiness Score (LExT) (The code and
set up to reproduce our experiments are publicly available at
https://github.com/cerai-iitm/LExT). Applying our domain-agnostic framework to
the healthcare domain using public medical datasets, we evaluate six models,
including domain-specific and general-purpose models. Our findings demonstrate
significant differences in their ability to generate trustworthy explanations.
On comparing these explanations, we make interesting observations such as
inconsistencies in Faithfulness demonstrated by general-purpose models and
their tendency to outperform domain-specific fine-tuned models. This work
further highlights the importance of using a tailored evaluation framework to
assess natural language explanations in sensitive fields, providing a
foundation for improving the trustworthiness and transparency of language
models in healthcare and beyond.
