---
layout: publication
title: 'Toursynbio: A Multi-modal Large Model And Agent Framework To Bridge Text And Protein Sequences For Protein Engineering'
authors: Shen Yiqing, Chen Zan, Mamalakis Michail, Liu Yungeng, Li Tianbin, Su Yanzhou, He Junjun, Liò Pietro, Wang Yu Guang
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: shen2024multi
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.15299"}
tags: ['Agentic', 'Fine Tuning', 'GPT', 'Model Architecture', 'Pretraining Methods', 'RAG', 'Tools', 'Training Techniques']
---
"The structural similarities between protein sequences and natural languages have led to parallel advancements in deep learning across both domains. While large language models (LLMs) have achieved much progress in the domain of natural language processing, their potential in protein engineering remains largely unexplored. Previous approaches have equipped LLMs with protein understanding capabilities by incorporating external protein encoders, but this fails to fully leverage the inherent similarities between protein sequences and natural languages, resulting in sub-optimal performance and increased model complexity. To address this gap, we present TourSynbio-7B, the first multi-modal large model specifically designed for protein engineering tasks without external protein encoders. TourSynbio-7B demonstrates that LLMs can inherently learn to understand proteins as language. The model is post-trained and instruction fine-tuned on InternLM2-7B using ProteinLMDataset, a dataset comprising 17.46 billion tokens of text and protein sequence for self-supervised pretraining and 893K instructions for supervised fine-tuning. TourSynbio-7B outperforms GPT-4 on the ProteinLMBench, a benchmark of 944 manually verified multiple-choice questions, with 62.18&#37; accuracy. Leveraging TourSynbio-7B's enhanced protein sequence understanding capability, we introduce TourSynbio-Agent, an innovative framework capable of performing various protein engineering tasks, including mutation analysis, inverse folding, protein folding, and visualization. TourSynbio-Agent integrates previously disconnected deep learning models in the protein engineering domain, offering a unified conversational user interface for improved usability. Finally, we demonstrate the efficacy of TourSynbio-7B and TourSynbio-Agent through two wet lab case studies on vanilla key enzyme modification and steroid compound catalysis."
