---
layout: publication
title: 'Biomedical Knowledge Graph-optimized Prompt Generation For Large Language Models'
authors: Soman Karthik, Rose Peter W, Morris John H, Akbas Rabia E, Smith Brett, Peetoom Braian, Villouta-reyes Catalina, Cerono Gabriel, Shi Yongmei, Rizk-jackson Angela, Israni Sharat, Nelson Charlotte A, Huang Sui, Baranzini Sergio E
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2023
bibkey: soman2023biomedical
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17330"}
tags: ['Applications', 'Efficiency And Optimization', 'Fine Tuning', 'GPT', 'Model Architecture', 'Pretraining Methods', 'Prompting', 'Pruning', 'RAG', 'Tools', 'Training Techniques']
---
Large Language Models (LLMs) are being adopted at an unprecedented rate, yet still face challenges in knowledge-intensive domains like biomedicine. Solutions such as pre-training and domain-specific fine-tuning add substantial computational overhead, requiring further domain expertise. Here, we introduce a token-optimized and robust Knowledge Graph-based Retrieval Augmented Generation (KG-RAG) framework by leveraging a massive biomedical KG (SPOKE) with LLMs such as Llama-2-13b, GPT-3.5-Turbo and GPT-4, to generate meaningful biomedical text rooted in established knowledge. Compared to the existing RAG technique for Knowledge Graphs, the proposed method utilizes minimal graph schema for context extraction and uses embedding methods for context pruning. This optimization in context extraction results in more than 50&#37; reduction in token consumption without compromising the accuracy, making a cost-effective and robust RAG implementation on proprietary LLMs. KG-RAG consistently enhanced the performance of LLMs across diverse biomedical prompts by generating responses rooted in established knowledge, accompanied by accurate provenance and statistical evidence (if available) to substantiate the claims. Further benchmarking on human curated datasets, such as biomedical true/false and multiple-choice questions (MCQ), showed a remarkable 71&#37; boost in the performance of the Llama-2 model on the challenging MCQ dataset, demonstrating the framework's capacity to empower open-source models with fewer parameters for domain specific questions. Furthermore, KG-RAG enhanced the performance of proprietary GPT models, such as GPT-3.5 and GPT-4. In summary, the proposed framework combines explicit and implicit knowledge of KG and LLM in a token optimized fashion, thus enhancing the adaptability of general-purpose LLMs to tackle domain-specific questions in a cost-effective fashion.
