---
layout: publication
title: 'Fine Tuning Large Language Models To Deliver CBT For Depression'
authors: Talha Tahir
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: tahir2024fine
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.00251"}
tags: ['Training Techniques', 'Tools', 'RAG', 'Pretraining Methods', 'Fine-Tuning']
---
Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) is a well-established, evidence-based
treatment for Major Depressive Disorder. Unfortunately, there exist significant
barriers to individuals accessing CBT, including cost, scarcity of therapists
and stigma. This study explores the feasibility of fine-tuning small open
weight large language models (LLMs) to deliver CBT for depression. Using 58
sets of synthetic CBT transcripts generated by the Nous Research fine-tune of
Llama 3.1 405b, we fine-tuned three models: Mistral 7b v0.3, Qwen 2.5 7b, and
Llama 3.1 8b. CBT fidelity was evaluated through a modified Cognitive Therapy
Rating Scale (CTRS). All fine-tuned models were compared against each other, as
well as their instruct-tuned variants. Simulated patient transcripts were
generated for the purpose of evaluating model performance, with the instruct
and CBT-tuned models acting as the therapist and DeepSeek-V2.5 acting as the
patient. These simulated transcripts were evaluated on a modified CTRS by
Gemini 1.5 Pro-002. Our findings demonstrated that the CBT-tuned models
significantly outperformed their instruct-tuned counterparts, with an average
improvement of 11.33 points (p < 0.001) on total CTRS score. Llama 3.1 8b had
the strongest performance (mean CTRS score 67.86 +/- 7.24), followed by Qwen
2.5 7b (64.28 +/- 9.55) and Mistral 7b v0.3 (64.17 +/- 9.79), with these
differences between models being statistically significant. The CBT-tuned
models were competent in implementing core CBT techniques and providing
empathetic responses, however, there were limitations observed in agenda
adherence, exploration depth and long-context coherence. This study establishes
that CBT specific fine-tuning can effectively encode therapeutic competencies
in small LLMs, though significant technical and ethical considerations must be
resolved prior to clinical deployment.
