---
layout: publication
title: 'On The Hardness Of Faithful Chain-of-thought Reasoning In Large Language Models'
authors: Tanneru Sree Harsha, Ley Dan, Agarwal Chirag, Lakkaraju Himabindu
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: tanneru2024hardness
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10625"}
tags: ['Applications', 'Fine Tuning', 'In Context Learning', 'Interpretability And Explainability', 'Pretraining Methods', 'Prompting', 'Reinforcement Learning', 'Training Techniques']
---
As Large Language Models (LLMs) are increasingly being employed in real-world applications in critical domains such as healthcare it is important to ensure that the Chain-of-Thought (CoT) reasoning generated by these models faithfully captures their underlying behavior. While LLMs are known to generate CoT reasoning that is appealing to humans prior studies have shown that these explanations do not accurately reflect the actual behavior of the underlying LLMs. In this work we explore the promise of three broad approaches commonly employed to steer the behavior of LLMs to enhance the faithfulness of the CoT reasoning generated by LLMs in-context learning fine-tuning and activation editing. Specifically we introduce novel strategies for in-context learning fine-tuning and activation editing aimed at improving the faithfulness of the CoT reasoning. We then carry out extensive empirical analyses with multiple benchmark datasets to explore the promise of these strategies. Our analyses indicate that these strategies offer limited success in improving the faithfulness of the CoT reasoning with only slight performance enhancements in controlled scenarios. Activation editing demonstrated minimal success while fine-tuning and in-context learning achieved marginal improvements that failed to generalize across diverse reasoning and truthful question-answering benchmarks. In summary our work underscores the inherent difficulty in eliciting faithful CoT reasoning from LLMs suggesting that the current array of approaches may not be sufficient to address this complex challenge.
