---
layout: publication
title: 'Combining Large Language Models With Tutoring System Intelligence: A Case Study In Caregiver Homework Support'
authors: Devika Venugopalan, Ziwen Yan, Conrad Borchers, Jionghao Lin, Vincent Aleven
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: venugopalan2024combining
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.11995"}
tags: ['Few-Shot', 'Reinforcement Learning', 'TACL', 'Merging', 'ACL', 'Interpretability and Explainability', 'Prompting', 'In-Context Learning']
---
Caregivers (i.e., parents and members of a child's caring community) are
underappreciated stakeholders in learning analytics. Although caregiver
involvement can enhance student academic outcomes, many obstacles hinder
involvement, most notably knowledge gaps with respect to modern school
curricula. An emerging topic of interest in learning analytics is hybrid
tutoring, which includes instructional and motivational support. Caregivers
assert similar roles in homework, yet it is unknown how learning analytics can
support them. Our past work with caregivers suggested that conversational
support is a promising method of providing caregivers with the guidance needed
to effectively support student learning. We developed a system that provides
instructional support to caregivers through conversational recommendations
generated by a Large Language Model (LLM). Addressing known instructional
limitations of LLMs, we use instructional intelligence from tutoring systems
while conducting prompt engineering experiments with the open-source Llama 3
LLM. This LLM generated message recommendations for caregivers supporting their
child's math practice via chat. Few-shot prompting and combining real-time
problem-solving context from tutoring systems with examples of tutoring
practices yielded desirable message recommendations. These recommendations were
evaluated with ten middle school caregivers, who valued recommendations
facilitating content-level support and student metacognition through
self-explanation. We contribute insights into how tutoring systems can best be
merged with LLMs to support hybrid tutoring settings through conversational
assistance, facilitating effective caregiver involvement in tutoring systems.
