---
layout: publication
title: An Empirical Study Of Mamba45;based Language Models
authors: Waleffe Roger, Byeon Wonmin, Riach Duncan, Norick Brandon, Korthikanti Vijay, Dao Tri, Gu Albert, Hatamizadeh Ali, Singh Sudhakar, Narayanan Deepak, Kulshreshtha Garvit, Singh Vartika, Casper Jared, Kautz Jan, Shoeybi Mohammad, Catanzaro Bryan
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: waleffe2024empirical
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.07887"}
tags: ['Attention Mechanism', 'Language Modeling', 'Model Architecture', 'Pretraining Methods', 'RAG', 'Reinforcement Learning', 'Training Techniques', 'Transformer']
---
Selective state45;space models (SSMs) like Mamba overcome some of the shortcomings of Transformers such as quadratic computational complexity with sequence length and large inference45;time memory requirements from the key45;value cache. Moreover recent studies have shown that SSMs can match or exceed the language modeling capabilities of Transformers making them an attractive alternative. In a controlled setting (e.g. same data) however studies so far have only presented small scale experiments comparing SSMs to Transformers. To understand the strengths and weaknesses of these architectures at larger scales we present a direct comparison between 8B45;parameter Mamba Mamba45;2 and Transformer models trained on the same datasets of up to 3.5T tokens. We also compare these models to a hybrid architecture consisting of 4337; Mamba45;2 737; attention and 5037; MLP layers (Mamba45;245;Hybrid). Using a diverse set of tasks we answer the question of whether Mamba models can match Transformers at larger training budgets. Our results show that while pure SSMs match or exceed Transformers on many tasks they lag behind Transformers on tasks which require strong copying or in45;context learning abilities (e.g. 545;shot MMLU Phonebook) or long45;context reasoning. In contrast we find that the 8B Mamba45;245;Hybrid exceeds the 8B Transformer on all 12 standard tasks we evaluated (+2.65 points on average) and is predicted to be up to 8x faster when generating tokens at inference time. To validate long45;context capabilities we provide additional experiments evaluating variants of the Mamba45;245;Hybrid and Transformer extended to support 16K 32K and 128K sequences. On an additional 23 long45;context tasks the hybrid model continues to closely match or exceed the Transformer on average. To enable further study we release the checkpoints as well as the code used to train our models as part of NVIDIAs Megatron45;LM project.
