---
layout: publication
title: 'Prefclm: Enhancing Preference-based Reinforcement Learning With Crowdsourced Large Language Models'
authors: Wang Ruiqi, Zhao Dezhong, Yuan Ziqin, Obi Ike, Min Byung-cheol
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: wang2024enhancing
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.08213"}
tags: ['Agentic', 'Merging', 'RAG', 'Reinforcement Learning', 'Tools']
---
Preference-based reinforcement learning (PbRL) is emerging as a promising approach to teaching robots through human comparative feedback sidestepping the need for complex reward engineering. However the substantial volume of feedback required in existing PbRL methods often lead to reliance on synthetic feedback generated by scripted teachers. This approach necessitates intricate reward engineering again and struggles to adapt to the nuanced preferences particular to human-robot interaction (HRI) scenarios where users may have unique expectations toward the same task. To address these challenges we introduce PrefCLM a novel framework that utilizes crowdsourced large language models (LLMs) as simulated teachers in PbRL. We utilize Dempster-Shafer Theory to fuse individual preferences from multiple LLM agents at the score level efficiently leveraging their diversity and collective intelligence. We also introduce a human-in-the-loop pipeline that facilitates collective refinements based on user interactive feedback. Experimental results across various general RL tasks show that PrefCLM achieves competitive performance compared to traditional scripted teachers and excels in facilitating more more natural and efficient behaviors. A real-world user study (N=10) further demonstrates its capability to tailor robot behaviors to individual user preferences significantly enhancing user satisfaction in HRI scenarios.
