---
layout: publication
title: 'Os-copilot: Towards Generalist Computer Agents With Self-improvement'
authors: Zhiyong Wu, Chengcheng Han, Zichen Ding, Zhenmin Weng, Zhoumianze Liu, Shunyu Yao, Tao Yu, Lingpeng Kong
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: wu2024os
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.07456'}
tags: ['Agentic', 'Tools', 'Applications']
---
Autonomous interaction with the computer has been a longstanding challenge
with great potential, and the recent proliferation of large language models
(LLMs) has markedly accelerated progress in building digital agents. However,
most of these agents are designed to interact with a narrow domain, such as a
specific software or website. This narrow focus constrains their applicability
for general computer tasks. To this end, we introduce OS-Copilot, a framework
to build generalist agents capable of interfacing with comprehensive elements
in an operating system (OS), including the web, code terminals, files,
multimedia, and various third-party applications. We use OS-Copilot to create
FRIDAY, a self-improving embodied agent for automating general computer tasks.
On GAIA, a general AI assistants benchmark, FRIDAY outperforms previous methods
by 35%, showcasing strong generalization to unseen applications via accumulated
skills from previous tasks. We also present numerical and quantitative evidence
that FRIDAY learns to control and self-improve on Excel and Powerpoint with
minimal supervision. Our OS-Copilot framework and empirical findings provide
infrastructure and insights for future research toward more capable and
general-purpose computer agents.
