---
layout: publication
title: 'PA-RAG: RAG Alignment Via Multi-perspective Preference Optimization'
authors: Jiayi Wu, Hengyi Cai, Lingyong Yan, Hao Sun, Xiang Li, Shuaiqiang Wang, Dawei Yin, Ming Gao
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: wu2024pa
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.14510"}
  - {name: "Code", url: "https://github.com/wujwyi/PA-RAG"}
tags: ['Fine-Tuning', 'Efficiency and Optimization', 'RAG', 'Reinforcement Learning', 'Security', 'Training Techniques', 'Has Code', 'Pretraining Methods', 'Prompting']
---
The emergence of Retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) has alleviated the
issues of outdated and hallucinatory content in the generation of large
language models (LLMs), yet it still reveals numerous limitations. When a
general-purpose LLM serves as the RAG generator, it often suffers from
inadequate response informativeness, response robustness, and citation quality.
Past approaches to tackle these limitations, either by incorporating additional
steps beyond generating responses or optimizing the generator through
supervised fine-tuning (SFT), still failed to align with the RAG requirement
thoroughly. Consequently, optimizing the RAG generator from multiple preference
perspectives while maintaining its end-to-end LLM form remains a challenge. To
bridge this gap, we propose Multiple Perspective Preference Alignment for
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (PA-RAG), a method for optimizing the generator
of RAG systems to align with RAG requirements comprehensively. Specifically, we
construct high-quality instruction fine-tuning data and multi-perspective
preference data by sampling varied quality responses from the generator across
different prompt documents quality scenarios. Subsequently, we optimize the
generator using SFT and Direct Preference Optimization (DPO). Extensive
experiments conducted on four question-answer datasets across three LLMs
demonstrate that PA-RAG can significantly enhance the performance of RAG
generators. Our code and datasets are available at
https://github.com/wujwyi/PA-RAG.
