---
layout: publication
title: 'Q-instruct: Improving Low-level Visual Abilities For Multi-modality Foundation
  Models'
authors: Haoning Wu et al.
conference: Arxiv
year: 2023
citations: 16
bibkey: wu2023q
additional_links: [{name: Paper, url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.06783'}]
tags: [RAG, GPT, Multimodal Models]
---
Multi-modality foundation models, as represented by GPT-4V, have brought a
new paradigm for low-level visual perception and understanding tasks, that can
respond to a broad range of natural human instructions in a model. While
existing foundation models have shown exciting potentials on low-level visual
tasks, their related abilities are still preliminary and need to be improved.
In order to enhance these models, we conduct a large-scale subjective
experiment collecting a vast number of real human feedbacks on low-level
vision. Each feedback follows a pathway that starts with a detailed description
on the low-level visual appearance (*e.g. clarity, color, brightness* of an
image, and ends with an overall conclusion, with an average length of 45 words.
The constructed **Q-Pathway** dataset includes 58K detailed human feedbacks on
18,973 images with diverse low-level appearance. Moreover, to enable foundation
models to robustly respond to diverse types of questions, we design a
GPT-participated conversion to process these feedbacks into diverse-format 200K
instruction-response pairs. Experimental results indicate that the
**Q-Instruct** consistently elevates low-level perception and understanding
abilities across several foundational models. We anticipate that our datasets
can pave the way for a future that general intelligence can perceive,
understand low-level visual appearance and evaluate visual quality like a
human. Our dataset, model zoo, and demo is published at:
https://q-future.github.io/Q-Instruct.