---
layout: publication
title: 'It Takes A Good Model To Train A Good Model: Generalized Gaussian Priors For Optimized Llms'
authors: Jun Wu, Yirong Xiong, Jiangtao Wen, Yuxing Han
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2025
bibkey: wu2025it
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.00486"}
  - {name: "Code", url: "https://huggingface.co/spaces/shifeng3711/gg_prior"}
tags: ['Efficiency and Optimization', 'Training Techniques', 'Model Architecture', 'Tools', 'Has Code', 'Attention Mechanism']
---
Despite rapid advancements in the research and deployment of large language models (LLMs), the statistical distribution of model parameters, as well as their influence on initialization, training dynamics, and downstream efficiency, has received surprisingly little attention. A recent work introduced BackSlash, a training-time compression algorithm. It first demonstrated that pre-trained LLM parameters follow generalized Gaussian distributions (GGDs) better. By optimizing GG priors during training, BackSlash can reduce parameters by up to 90% with minimal performance loss. Building on this foundational insight, we propose a unified, end-to-end framework for LLM optimization based on the GG model. Our contributions are threefold: (1) GG-based initialization scheme that aligns with the statistical structure of trained models, resulting in faster convergence and improved accuracy; (2) DeepShape, a post-training regularization method that reshapes weight distributions to match a GG profile, improving compressibility with minimized degradation in performance; and (3) RF8, a compact and hardware-efficient 8-bit floating-point format designed for GG-distributed-initialized BackSlash training, enabling low-cost inference without compromising accuracy. Experiments across diverse model architectures show that our framework consistently yields smaller and faster models that match or outperform standard training baselines. By grounding LLM development in principled statistical modeling, this work forges a new path toward efficient, scalable, and hardware-aware AI systems. The code is available on our project page: https://huggingface.co/spaces/shifeng3711/gg_prior.
