---
layout: publication
title: 'The Prompt Is Mightier Than The Example'
authors: Shengzhe Xu, Nikhil Muralidhar, Naren Ramakrishnan
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2025
bibkey: xu2025prompt
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.18485'}
tags: ['Prompting', 'Efficiency and Optimization', 'In-Context Learning']
---
Numerous recent prompt optimization approaches like chain-of-thought, have been demonstrated to significantly improve the quality of content generated by large language models (LLMs). In-context learning (ICL), a recent paradigm where a few representative examples guide content generation has also led to strong improvements in generation quality of LLM generated content. This idea has been applied to great effect in synthetic tabular data generation, where LLMs, through effective use of ICL and prompt optimization, can generate data that approximate samples from complex, heterogeneous distributions based on representative examples. However, ensuring high-fidelity synthetic data often requires a very large number of ICL examples which may be unavailable or costly to obtain. At the same time, as LLMs get larger and larger, their in-built prior knowledge becomes vast and can potentially substitute for specific data examples. In this paper, we introduce Knowledge-Guided Prompting (KGP) as a new knob in prompt optimization and explore the ability of KGP-based prompt optimization to offset the cost of ICL. Specifically, we explore the question `how many examples can a prompt substitute for?' and explore knowledge-guided prompting (KGP) where domain knowledge, either inferred or available, is explicitly injected into the prompt, reducing dependence on ICL examples. Our experiments systematically explore the trade-off between ICL and KGP, revealing an empirical scaling law that quantifies how quality of generated synthetic data varies with increasing domain knowledge and decreasing example count. Our results demonstrate that knowledge-guided prompting can be a scalable alternative, or addition, to in-context examples, unlocking new approaches to synthetic data generation.
