---
layout: publication
title: Data Efficient Evaluation Of Large Language Models And Text45;to45;image Models Via Adaptive Sampling
authors: Xu Cong, Saranathan Gayathri, Alam Mahammad Parwez, Shah Arpit, Lim James, Wong Soon Yee, Martin Foltin, Bhattacharya Suparna
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: xu2024data
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.15527"}
tags: ['Ethics And Bias', 'GPT', 'Model Architecture', 'RAG', 'Reinforcement Learning', 'Survey Paper', 'Tools']
---
Evaluating LLMs and text45;to45;image models is a computationally intensive task often overlooked. Efficient evaluation is crucial for understanding the diverse capabilities of these models and enabling comparisons across a growing number of new models and benchmarks. To address this we introduce SubLIME a data45;efficient evaluation framework that employs adaptive sampling techniques such as clustering and quality45;based methods to create representative subsets of benchmarks. Our approach ensures statistically aligned model rankings compared to full datasets evidenced by high Pearson correlation coefficients. Empirical analysis across six NLP benchmarks reveals that (1) quality45;based sampling consistently achieves strong correlations (0.85 to 0.95) with full datasets at a 1037; sampling rate such as Quality SE and Quality CPD (2) clustering methods excel in specific benchmarks such as MMLU (3) no single method universally outperforms others across all metrics. Extending this framework we leverage the HEIM leaderboard to cover 25 text45;to45;image models on 17 different benchmarks. SubLIME dynamically selects the optimal technique for each benchmark significantly reducing evaluation costs while preserving ranking integrity and score distribution. Notably a minimal sampling rate of 137; proves effective for benchmarks like MMLU. Additionally we demonstrate that employing difficulty45;based sampling to target more challenging benchmark segments enhances model differentiation with broader score distributions. We also combine semantic search tool use and GPT45;4 review to identify redundancy across benchmarks within specific LLM categories such as coding benchmarks. This allows us to further reduce the number of samples needed to maintain targeted rank preservation. Overall SubLIME offers a versatile and cost45;effective solution for the robust evaluation of LLMs and text45;to45;image models.
