---
layout: publication
title: 'Mm-storyagent: Immersive Narrated Storybook Video Generation With A Multi-agent Paradigm Across Text, Image And Audio'
authors: Xuenan Xu, Jiahao Mei, Chenliang Li, Yuning Wu, Ming Yan, Shaopeng Lai, Ji Zhang, Mengyue Wu
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2025
bibkey: xu2025mm
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.05242'}
tags: ['Agentic', 'Tools', 'Applications']
---
The rapid advancement of large language models (LLMs) and artificial
intelligence-generated content (AIGC) has accelerated AI-native applications,
such as AI-based storybooks that automate engaging story production for
children. However, challenges remain in improving story attractiveness,
enriching storytelling expressiveness, and developing open-source evaluation
benchmarks and frameworks. Therefore, we propose and opensource MM-StoryAgent,
which creates immersive narrated video storybooks with refined plots,
role-consistent images, and multi-channel audio. MM-StoryAgent designs a
multi-agent framework that employs LLMs and diverse expert tools (generative
models and APIs) across several modalities to produce expressive storytelling
videos. The framework enhances story attractiveness through a multi-stage
writing pipeline. In addition, it improves the immersive storytelling
experience by integrating sound effects with visual, music and narrative
assets. MM-StoryAgent offers a flexible, open-source platform for further
development, where generative modules can be substituted. Both objective and
subjective evaluation regarding textual story quality and alignment between
modalities validate the effectiveness of our proposed MM-StoryAgent system. The
demo and source code are available.
