---
layout: publication
title: Face4rag Factual Consistency Evaluation For Retrieval Augmented Generation In Chinese
authors: Xu Yunqi, Cai Tianchi, Jiang Jiyan, Song Xierui
conference: "KDD"
year: 2024
bibkey: xu2024factual
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.01080"}
tags: ['RAG', 'Reinforcement Learning']
---
The prevailing issue of factual inconsistency errors in conventional Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) motivates the study of Factual Consistency Evaluation (FCE). Despite the various FCE methods proposed earlier these methods are evaluated on datasets generated by specific Large Language Models (LLMs). Without a comprehensive benchmark it remains unexplored how these FCE methods perform on other LLMs with different error distributions or even unseen error types as these methods may fail to detect the error types generated by other LLMs. To fill this gap in this paper we propose the first comprehensive FCE benchmark emph123;Face4RAG125; for RAG independent of the underlying LLM. Our benchmark consists of a synthetic dataset built upon a carefully designed typology for factuality inconsistency error and a real45;world dataset constructed from six commonly used LLMs enabling evaluation of FCE methods on specific error types or real45;world error distributions. On the proposed benchmark we discover the failure of existing FCE methods to detect the logical fallacy which refers to a mismatch of logic structures between the answer and the retrieved reference. To fix this issue we further propose a new method called emph123;L45;Face4RAG125; with two novel designs of logic45;preserving answer decomposition and fact45;logic FCE. Extensive experiments show L45;Face4RAG substantially outperforms previous methods for factual inconsistency detection on a wide range of tasks notably beyond the RAG task from which it is originally motivated. Both the benchmark and our proposed method are publicly available.footnote123;url123;https://huggingface.co/datasets/yq27/Face4RAG&#125;\label&#123;link&#95;face4rag&#125;&#125;
