---
layout: publication
title: 'Hr-multiwoz: A Task Oriented Dialogue (TOD) Dataset For HR LLM Agent'
authors: Xu Weijie, Huang Zicheng, Hu Wenxiang, Fang Xi, Cherukuri Rajesh Kumar, Nayyar Naumaan, Malandri Lorenzo, Sengamedu Srinivasan H.
conference: "EACL"
year: 2024
bibkey: xu2024hr
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.01018"}
tags: ['Agentic', 'Pretraining Methods', 'Tools', 'Training Techniques']
---
"Recent advancements in Large Language Models (LLMs) have been reshaping Natural Language Processing (NLP) task in several domains. Their use in the field of Human Resources (HR) has still room for expansions and could be beneficial for several time consuming tasks. Examples such as time-off submissions, medical claims filing, and access requests are noteworthy, but they are by no means the sole instances. However, the aforementioned developments must grapple with the pivotal challenge of constructing a high-quality training dataset. On one hand, most conversation datasets are solving problems for customers not employees. On the other hand, gathering conversations with HR could raise privacy concerns. To solve it, we introduce HR-Multiwoz, a fully-labeled dataset of 550 conversations spanning 10 HR domains to evaluate LLM Agent. Our work has the following contributions: (1) It is the first labeled open-sourced conversation dataset in the HR domain for NLP research. (2) It provides a detailed recipe for the data generation procedure along with data analysis and human evaluations. The data generation pipeline is transferable and can be easily adapted for labeled conversation data generation in other domains. (3) The proposed data-collection pipeline is mostly based on LLMs with minimal human involvement for annotation, which is time and cost-efficient."
