---
layout: publication
title: GPT45;4 As Evaluator Evaluating Large Language Models On Pest Management In Agriculture
authors: Yang Shanglong, Yuan Zhipeng, Li Shunbao, Peng Ruoling, Liu Kang, Yang Po
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: yang2024gpt
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.11858"}
tags: ['GPT', 'Model Architecture', 'Pretraining Methods', 'Prompting', 'Reinforcement Learning', 'Tools', 'Transformer']
---
In the rapidly evolving field of artificial intelligence (AI) the application of large language models (LLMs) in agriculture particularly in pest management remains nascent. We aimed to prove the feasibility by evaluating the content of the pest management advice generated by LLMs including the Generative Pre45;trained Transformer (GPT) series from OpenAI and the FLAN series from Google. Considering the context45;specific properties of agricultural advice automatically measuring or quantifying the quality of text generated by LLMs becomes a significant challenge. We proposed an innovative approach using GPT45;4 as an evaluator to score the generated content on Coherence Logical Consistency Fluency Relevance Comprehensibility and Exhaustiveness. Additionally we integrated an expert system based on crop threshold data as a baseline to obtain scores for Factual Accuracy on whether pests found in crop fields should take management action. Each models score was weighted by percentage to obtain a final score. The results showed that GPT45;3.4 and GPT45;4 outperform the FLAN models in most evaluation categories. Furthermore the use of instruction45;based prompting containing domain45;specific knowledge proved the feasibility of LLMs as an effective tool in agriculture with an accuracy rate of 7237; demonstrating LLMs effectiveness in providing pest management suggestions.
