---
layout: publication
title: Progressive Evidence Refinement For Open45;domain Multimodal Retrieval Question Answering
authors: Yang Shuwen, Wu Anran, Wu Xingjiao, Xiao Luwei, Ma Tianlong, Jin Cheng, He Liang
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2023
bibkey: yang2023progressive
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2310.09696"}
tags: ['Applications', 'Attention Mechanism', 'Efficiency And Optimization', 'Fine Tuning', 'Model Architecture', 'Multimodal Models', 'Pretraining Methods', 'RAG', 'Reinforcement Learning', 'Tools', 'Training Techniques', 'Transformer']
---
Pre45;trained multimodal models have achieved significant success in retrieval45;based question answering. However current multimodal retrieval question45;answering models face two main challenges. Firstly utilizing compressed evidence features as input to the model results in the loss of fine45;grained information within the evidence. Secondly a gap exists between the feature extraction of evidence and the question which hinders the model from effectively extracting critical features from the evidence based on the given question. We propose a two45;stage framework for evidence retrieval and question45;answering to alleviate these issues. First and foremost we propose a progressive evidence refinement strategy for selecting crucial evidence. This strategy employs an iterative evidence retrieval approach to uncover the logical sequence among the evidence pieces. It incorporates two rounds of filtering to optimize the solution space thus further ensuring temporal efficiency. Subsequently we introduce a semi45;supervised contrastive learning training strategy based on negative samples to expand the scope of the question domain allowing for a more thorough exploration of latent knowledge within known samples. Finally in order to mitigate the loss of fine45;grained information we devise a multi45;turn retrieval and question45;answering strategy to handle multimodal inputs. This strategy involves incorporating multimodal evidence directly into the model as part of the historical dialogue and question. Meanwhile we leverage a cross45;modal attention mechanism to capture the underlying connections between the evidence and the question and the answer is generated through a decoding generation approach. We validate the models effectiveness through extensive experiments achieving outstanding performance on WebQA and MultimodelQA benchmark tests.
