---
layout: publication
title: 'X-MAS: Towards Building Multi-agent Systems With Heterogeneous Llms'
authors: Rui Ye, Xiangrui Liu, Qimin Wu, Xianghe Pang, Zhenfei Yin, Lei Bai, Siheng Chen
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2025
bibkey: ye2025x
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.16997'}
tags: ['Training Techniques', 'Agentic', 'Tools', 'Agent']
---
LLM-based multi-agent systems (MAS) extend the capabilities of single LLMs by enabling cooperation among multiple specialized agents. However, most existing MAS frameworks rely on a single LLM to drive all agents, constraining the system's intelligence to the limit of that model. This paper explores the paradigm of heterogeneous LLM-driven MAS (X-MAS), where agents are powered by diverse LLMs, elevating the system's potential to the collective intelligence of diverse LLMs. We introduce X-MAS-Bench, a comprehensive testbed designed to evaluate the performance of various LLMs across different domains and MAS-related functions. As an extensive empirical study, we assess 27 LLMs across 5 domains (encompassing 21 test sets) and 5 functions, conducting over 1.7 million evaluations to identify optimal model selections for each domain-function combination. Building on these findings, we demonstrate that transitioning from homogeneous to heterogeneous LLM-driven MAS can significantly enhance system performance without requiring structural redesign. Specifically, in a chatbot-only MAS scenario, the heterogeneous configuration yields up to 8.4% performance improvement on the MATH dataset. In a mixed chatbot-reasoner scenario, the heterogeneous MAS could achieve a remarkable 47% performance boost on the AIME dataset. Our results underscore the transformative potential of heterogeneous LLMs in MAS, highlighting a promising avenue for advancing scalable, collaborative AI systems.
