---
layout: publication
title: Mindspeech Continuous Imagined Speech Decoding Using High45;density Fnirs And Prompt Tuning For Advanced Human45;ai Interaction
authors: Zhang Suyi, Alam Ekram, Baber Jack, Bianco Francesca, Turner Edward, Chamanzar Maysam, Dehghani Hamid
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: zhang2024continuous
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.05362"}
tags: ['Agentic', 'Applications', 'BERT', 'Language Modeling', 'Model Architecture', 'Prompting']
---
In the coming decade artificial intelligence systems will continue to improve and revolutionise every industry and facet of human life. Designing effective seamless and symbiotic communication paradigms between humans and AI agents is increasingly important. This paper reports a novel method for human45;AI interaction by developing a direct brain45;AI interface. We discuss a novel AI model called MindSpeech which enables open45;vocabulary continuous decoding for imagined speech. This study focuses on enhancing human45;AI communication by utilising high45;density functional near45;infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) data to develop an AI model capable of decoding imagined speech non45;invasively. We discuss a new word cloud paradigm for data collection improving the quality and variety of imagined sentences generated by participants and covering a broad semantic space. Utilising a prompt tuning45;based approach we employed the Llama2 large language model (LLM) for text generation guided by brain signals. Our results show significant improvements in key metrics such as BLEU45;1 and BERT P scores for three out of four participants demonstrating the methods effectiveness. Additionally we demonstrate that combining data from multiple participants enhances the decoder performance with statistically significant improvements in BERT scores for two participants. Furthermore we demonstrated significantly above45;chance decoding accuracy for imagined speech versus resting conditions and the identified activated brain regions during imagined speech tasks in our study are consistent with the previous studies on brain regions involved in speech encoding. This study underscores the feasibility of continuous imagined speech decoding. By integrating high45;density fNIRS with advanced AI techniques we highlight the potential for non45;invasive accurate communication systems with AI in the near future.
