---
layout: publication
title: 'Generative AI Is Not Ready For Clinical Use In Patient Education For Lower Back Pain Patients, Even With Retrieval-augmented Generation'
authors: Yi-fei Zhao, Allyn Bove, David Thompson, James Hill, Yi Xu, Yufan Ren, Andrea Hassman, Leming Zhou, Yanshan Wang
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: zhao2024generative
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.15260"}
tags: ['RAG', 'Tools', 'Few-Shot']
---
Low back pain (LBP) is a leading cause of disability globally. Following the
onset of LBP and subsequent treatment, adequate patient education is crucial
for improving functionality and long-term outcomes. Despite advancements in
patient education strategies, significant gaps persist in delivering
personalized, evidence-based information to patients with LBP. Recent
advancements in large language models (LLMs) and generative artificial
intelligence (GenAI) have demonstrated the potential to enhance patient
education. However, their application and efficacy in delivering educational
content to patients with LBP remain underexplored and warrant further
investigation. In this study, we introduce a novel approach utilizing LLMs with
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) and few-shot learning to generate tailored
educational materials for patients with LBP. Physical therapists manually
evaluated our model responses for redundancy, accuracy, and completeness using
a Likert scale. In addition, the readability of the generated education
materials is assessed using the Flesch Reading Ease score. The findings
demonstrate that RAG-based LLMs outperform traditional LLMs, providing more
accurate, complete, and readable patient education materials with less
redundancy. Having said that, our analysis reveals that the generated materials
are not yet ready for use in clinical practice. This study underscores the
potential of AI-driven models utilizing RAG to improve patient education for
LBP; however, significant challenges remain in ensuring the clinical relevance
and granularity of content generated by these models.
