---
layout: publication
title: 'LIBER: Lifelong User Behavior Modeling Based On Large Language Models'
authors: Chenxu Zhu, Shigang Quan, Bo Chen, Jianghao Lin, Xiaoling Cai, Hong Zhu, Xiangyang Li, Yunjia Xi, Weinan Zhang, Ruiming Tang
conference: "Arxiv"
year: 2024
bibkey: zhu2024lifelong
additional_links:
  - {name: "Paper", url: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.14713"}
tags: ['RecSys', 'RAG', 'Merging', 'Reinforcement Learning']
---
CTR prediction plays a vital role in recommender systems. Recently, large
language models (LLMs) have been applied in recommender systems due to their
emergence abilities. While leveraging semantic information from LLMs has shown
some improvements in the performance of recommender systems, two notable
limitations persist in these studies. First, LLM-enhanced recommender systems
encounter challenges in extracting valuable information from lifelong user
behavior sequences within textual contexts for recommendation tasks. Second,
the inherent variability in human behaviors leads to a constant stream of new
behaviors and irregularly fluctuating user interests. This characteristic
imposes two significant challenges on existing models. On the one hand, it
presents difficulties for LLMs in effectively capturing the dynamic shifts in
user interests within these sequences, and on the other hand, there exists the
issue of substantial computational overhead if the LLMs necessitate recurrent
calls upon each update to the user sequences. In this work, we propose Lifelong
User Behavior Modeling (LIBER) based on large language models, which includes
three modules: (1) User Behavior Streaming Partition (UBSP), (2) User Interest
Learning (UIL), and (3) User Interest Fusion (UIF). Initially, UBSP is employed
to condense lengthy user behavior sequences into shorter partitions in an
incremental paradigm, facilitating more efficient processing. Subsequently, UIL
leverages LLMs in a cascading way to infer insights from these partitions.
Finally, UIF integrates the textual outputs generated by the aforementioned
processes to construct a comprehensive representation, which can be
incorporated by any recommendation model to enhance performance. LIBER has been
deployed on Huawei's music recommendation service and achieved substantial
improvements in users' play count and play time by 3.01% and 7.69%.
